SOURCE: 002_IFSCA career__2023 Phase 1 Exam Handout - General Stream.pdf
PAGES: 7
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
1 
 
 
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT MANAGER (OFFICER GRADE-A) 
(GENERAL STREAM) IN IFSCA 
INFORMATION HANDOUT FOR PHASE II ON-LINE EXAMINATION 
In case of any discrepancy or inconsistency between English and Hindi version, the English version shall prevail. 
This handout contains details pertaining to various aspects of the online exam you are going to undertake and 
important instructions about related matters. You are advised to study the handout carefully as it will help you in 
preparing for the examination.  
The on-line examination will comprise the following objective type multiple choice tests as stated below : 
Paper Streams/Subjects No. of 
Questions 
Maximum 
Marks Version Duration Cut-off Weightage 
Paper 1 
English (Descriptive Test) 
(a) Precis writing – 35 
marks 
(b) Essay writing – 30 
marks 
(c) Comprehension – 35 
marks 
3 100 English 60 minutes 30% 1/3rd 
Paper 2 
Multiple choice questions 
on subjects like IFSCA Act, 
Union Budget, Economic 
Survey, Banking, Capital 
Market, Insurance, Pension 
Funds, Bullion, GIFT City, 
GIFT IFSC, IFSCA, Global 
Financial Centres etc. 
 
50 
(each 
question will 
carry 2 
marks) 
100 
Bilingual 
i.e. Hindi 
and 
English 
60 minutes 40% 
 
2/3rd 
 
 
     Total 53 200  120 Minutes   
     Average Cut Off     40%  
The time for the test is 120 minutes; however, you may have to be present at the venue for approximately 180 minutes 
including the time required for logging in, collection of the call letters, going through the instructions etc. All the tests 
except Descriptive test of English will be made available in English and Hindi. Tests are separately timed.  You can 
attempt any question in a particular test during the time allotted to that test only. All the questions will have multiple 
choices. Out of the five answers to a  question only one  will be the correct answer. You have to select the most 
appropriate answer and ‘mouse click’ that alternative which you feel is appropriate/ correct. The alternative/ 
option that you have clicked on will be treated as your answer to that  question. There will be penalty for 
wrong answers marked by you.  For every wrong answer marked by you, 1/4 th of the marks assigned to that 
question will be deducted as penalty. 
The Scores of Online Examination will be obtained by adopting the following procedure : 
(i) Number of questions answered correctly by a candidate in each objective test is considered for arriving at the 
Corrected Score after applying penalty for wrong answers. 
(ii) The Corrected Scores so obtained by a candidate are made equivalent to take care of the minor difference in 
difficulty level, if any, in each of the objective tests held in different sessions to arrive at the Equated Scores* 
*Scores obtained by candidates on any test are equated to the base form by considering t he distribution of scores of 
all the forms. 
(iii) Testwise scores and scores on total is reported with decimal points upto two digits. 
 
 


[PAGE 2]
2 
 
 
There shall be a minimum cut -off of 30% for Paper 1 (There will be no Sectional cut -offs). For Paper -2, 
minimum cut-off will be 40%. Aggregate cut -off will be 40%.  Candidates who secure minimum cut -off in  
Paper I and Paper II as well as aggregate cut-off will be shortlisted for Phase II. 
Descriptive English Test – Precis, Essay and Comprehension. 
Descriptive paper will be provided only in English. Descriptive questions will be displayed on the screen of 
your computer. Answers are to be typed using the keyboard. Before start of typing answers to questions in 
Descriptive Paper, please check all key f unctions of the keyboard. You will get 60 minutes to answer the 
questions. 
Please note that the types of questions in this handout are only illustrative and not exhaustive. In the actual 
examination you will find questions of a higher difficulty level on some or all of these types and also 
questions on the types not mentioned here. 
Some sample questions are given below. 
PAPER 1 
ENGLISH (DESCRIPTIVE TEST) 
Q.1. Write a précis of the following passage in about 120 words, and give it a title. 
 Christian Reed, a project manager, has worked at the Tata Steel plant—Britain’s biggest—for 11 years. His 
father worked in the local steel industry for 40 years, and his grandfather was a foundry worker. “It’s very 
difficult to contemplate losing the plant,” he says. “It would be like losing a member of the family.” 
 The fate of his job and those of about 4,300 other Port Talbot steelworkers, as well as Britain’s loss-making 
steel industry in general, have become the most poignant part of the political row that has erupted in Britain 
since Tata Steel, Britain’s biggest producer, said in late March that it planned to sell or close its operations in 
the country. Opposition politicians have demanded that the government engineer a rescue, either by erecting 
high tariff walls against cheap steel imports, as America has done, or by going for some sort of nationalisation, 
as Italy has attempted with the ill-starred Ilva plant in the heel of the country. On April 5th a potential rescuer, 
Sanjeev Gupta of Liberty House, a commodity-trading company, said he was interested in buying the Port 
Talbot business, though he wants plenty of government sweeteners before doing so. He has called Britain’s 
steel industry “probably the worst in the world.” 
 There are few parts of the rich world where steel remains a good business, however. Port Talbot’s woes are 
indicative of a global problem—especially in places where makers of unspecialised steel face competition 
from cheaper producers. 
 In the eyes of many, including the Welsh steelworkers, the main bogeyman is China, where steel output has 
ballooned. The country has produced more steel in two years than Britain since 1900, according to the 
International Steel Statistics Bureau, and is indeed awash with excess capacity. But this is part of a 
phenomenon that extends across the developing world. The OECD, a club mostly of rich countries, reckons 
that in the four years to 2017 steelmaking capacity will have grown by 50% in the Middle East, 20% in Africa 
and 10% in Latin America. 
 Meanwhile, the China-led slowdown in developing economies and low oil prices, which have hit the use of 
steel in rigs and pipelines, mean that demand is severely lagging supply. Even in India, which is supposed to 
be the bright spot of the global steel market, demand growth is unlikely to recover to levels in the years before 
2010 when it embarked on a debt-fuelled infrastructure construction binge. 
Q.2. Write an essay on any ONE of the following topics in about 400 words. 
1. Three effective measures to eradicate illiteracy in India. Explain how the measures suggested by you will 
be effective. 
2. It is often said that computerization results in unemployment. Do you agree ? Explain. 
3. High Rise Buildings : Infrastructural and Environmental Issues. 
 
 
 

[PAGE 3]
3 
 
Q.3-6. Direction : –  Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions given below it. Certain words 
are underlined to enable you locate them while answering some of the questions. 
Power and possession have been central pursuits of modern civilization for a long time. They blocked out or 
distorted other features of the Western Renaissance (revival) which promised so mu ch for humanity. What 
people have been and are still being taught to prize are money, success, control over the lives of others, 
acquisition of more and more objects. Modern social, political and economic systems, whether capitalists, 
fascist or communist, reject in their working the basic principle that the free and creative unfoldment of every 
man, woman and child is the true measure of the worth of any society. Such unfoldment requires 
understanding and imagination, integrity and compassion, co -opertion among people, and harmony between 
the human species and the  rest of nature. Acquisitiveness and the pusuit of power have made the modern 
man an aggressor against everything that is non -human, an exploiter and oppressor of those who are poor, 
meek and unorg anized, a pathological type which hates and distrusts the world and suffer from both ac ute 
loneliness and false pride. 
The need for a new renaissance is deeply felt by those sensitive and conscientious men and women who not 
only perceive the dimensions of the crisis of our age but who also realise that only through conscious and co -
operative human  effort may this crisis be met and probably even overcome. 
Q.3. According to the passage, why has modern man turned out to be an enemy of everyrthing that is  
non-human ? 
(1)  He has been dominated by drives of acquistiveness and power. 
(2)  He hates and distrusts other human beings 
(3)  He consciously practices spirit of cooperation 
(4)  Non-jumand have refused cooperation to human beings. 
(5)  None of these 
Q.4. Which of the following is one of the requirements to bring out the best in man ? 
(1)  Money (2)  Success (3)  Understanding (4)  Power (5)  Acquistiveness 
Q.5. The real attainment of any society can be adjudged by which of the following ? 
(1)  The degree of freedom for pursuing more and more power. 
(2)  The encouragement for acquisitive tendencies. 
(3)  Strict adherance to authoritarian structure 
(4)  Total vicitimisation of conscientious persons 
(5)  None of these 
Q.6. The modern value systems encourage the importance of which of the following ? 
(1)  Spiritual development of all individuals. (2)  Recognition of freedom and equality 
(3)  Craving for power and possession (4)  Spirit of inquiry  and knowlege 
(5)  Basic respect for all individuals 
PAPER 2 
Questions in this section will be based on the following topics: 
IFSCA Act, Union Budget, Economic Survey, Banking, Capital Market, Insurance, Pension Funds, Bullion, GIFT City, 
GIFT IFSC, IFSCA, Global Financial Centres etc. 
 
(A) Details of the On-line Examination Pattern (Objective) 
(1) The examination would be conducted on-line i.e. on a computer. 
(2) All tests except Descriptive test of English will be in English and Hindi. 
(3) All the questions will have multiple choices. Out of the five answers to a question only one will be the correct 
answer. The candidate has to select the most appropriate answer and ‘mouse click’ that alternative 
which he/ she feels is appropriate/ correct.  The alternative/ option that is clicked on will be treated as 
the answer to that question. Answer to any question will be considered for final evaluation, only when 
candidates have submitted the answers by clicking on “Save & Next” or “Mark for Review & Next”. 
(4) The clock has been set at the server and the countdown timer at the top right corner of your screen will display 
the time remaining for you to complete the exam. When the clock runs out the exam ends by default - you are 
not required to end or submit your exam.  
 

[PAGE 4]
4 
 
(5) The Question Palette displayed on the right side of screen will show the status of each question using one of 
the following symbols :  
    
 The Marked for Review status for a question simply indicates that you would like to look at that question again. 
If a question is answered and Marked for Review, your answer for that question will be considered in the 
evaluation.  
(6) To select a question to answer, you can do one of the following :  
(a) Click on the question number on the question palette at the right of your screen to go to that numbered 
question directly. Note that using this option does NOT save your answer to the current question.  
(b) Click on ‘Save & Next’ to save answer to current question and to go to the next question in sequence. 
(c) Click on ‘Mark for Review and Next’ to save answer to current question, mark it for review, and to go to 
the next question in sequence. 
(7) To select your answer, click on one of the option buttons. 
(8) To change your answer, click another desired option button. 
(9) To save your answer, you MUST click on Save & Next. 
(10) To deselect a chosen answer, click on the chosen option again or click on the Clear Response button. 
(11) To mark a question for review click on Mark for Review & Next. If an answer is selected for a question that is 
Marked for Review, the answer will be considered in the final evaluation.  
(12) To change an answer to a question, first select the question and then click on the new answer option followed 
by a click on the Save & Next button. 
(13) Questions that are saved or marked for review after answering will ONLY be considered for evaluation. 
(14) The candidates are requested to follow the instructions of the “Test Administrator” carefully. If any candidate 
does not follow the instructions / rules, it would be treated as a case of misconduct/ adoption of unfair means 
and such a candidate would be liable for debarment from appearing for examinations for a period as decided by 
IFSCA. 
(15) The candidates may ask the Test Administrator about their doubts or questions only before the commencement 
of the test. No query shall be entertained after the commencement of the examination. 
(16) Tests are separately timed. You can attempt any question in a particular test during the time allotted to that test 
only. 
(17) After the expiry of 120 minutes, the candidates will not be able to attempt any question or  check their answers. 
The answers of the candidate would be saved automatically by the computer system even if he/ she has not 
clicked the “Submit” button.  
(18) Please note: 
(a) Candidates will not be allowed to “finally submit” unless they have exhausted the actual test time.  
(b) Under no circumstances should a candidate click on any of the ‘keyboard keys’ once the exam 
starts as this will lock the exam. 
 
 
 
 


[PAGE 5]
5 
 
(19) Please note for Descriptive type paper : 
a) No separate login is required to take the test. 
b) This test will start automatically upon auto-submission of objective tests.  
c) Questions will be displayed on computer monitor.  
d) Only one question will be displayed at a time. 
e) “While typing if you press the ‘Space bar’ and then press the ‘Enter’ key, the cursor will not move 
to next line. However if you press the ‘Enter’ key immediately after the last word, the cursor will 
move to the next line. You should also note in case the ‘Space bar’/ ‘Enter’ key is pressed multiple 
times in a single instance only a single keystroke (i.e. one space and one enter to the next line) will 
be taken by the system.” 
Descriptive test will be administered immediately after the objective test. 
 
[B] General Instructions: 
(1) Please note Date, Reporting time and Venue address of the examination given in the call letter.  
(2) You may visit the venue one day before the Online Examination to confirm the location so that you are able to 
report on time (as printed on the call letter) on the day of the examination. Late comers will not be allowed. 
(3) The call letter should be broug ht with you to the examination venue along with your recent passport size 
photograph duly pasted on it. (Preferably the same photograph as was as uploaded). 
(4) You must scrupulously follow the instructions of the Test Administrator and IFSCA Representative at the 
examination venue. If you violate the instructions, you will be disqualified and will be asked to leave the 
examination venue. 
(5) No use of calculators (separate or with watch), books, note books or written notes, cell phones (with or without 
camera facility), smart watches or any other electronic device will be allowed during the examination. 
(6) Biometric data (thumb impression) and photograph will be captured at the examination venue before the start of 
examination. Decision of the Biometric data verification authority with regard to its status (matched or 
mismatched) shall be final and binding u pon the candidates. Refusal to participate in the process of 
biometric data capturing / verification on any occasion may lead to cancellation of candidature.  With 
regards to the same, please note the following : 
(a) If fingers are coated (stamped ink/mehndi/coloured...etc.), ensure to thoroughly wash them so that coating 
is completely removed before the examination day. 
(b) If fingers are dirty or dusty, ensure to wash them and dry them before the thumb impression (biometric) is 
captured. 
(c) Ensure fingers of both hands are dry. If fingers are moist, wipe each finger to dry them. 
(d) If the primary finger (thumb) to be captured is injured/damaged, immediately notify the concerned authority in 
the test centre. 
(Any failure to observe these points will result in non-admittance for the examination). 
(7) Please bring the call letter with your photograph affixed thereon, currently valid Photo identity proof in original 
and a photocopy of the same ID proof which you bring in original - THIS IS ESSENTIAL. The call-letter along 
with photocopy of photo identity proof duly stapled together are to be submitted to the Invigilator . 
Currently valid photo identity proof may be PAN Card/Passport/Driving Licence/ Voter’s Card with 
photograph/Bank Passbook with photograph /Photo Identity proof issued by a Gazetted Officer on official 
letterhead/Photo Identity proof issued by a People’s Representative on official letterhead/Valid recent Identity 
Card issued by a recognised College/University/  Aadhar/E-Aadhar Card with a phot ograph/Employee ID in 
original/Bar Council Identity Card with photograph. Please Note - Ration Card will NOT be accepted as valid 
ID proof for this project.  Please note that your name as appearing on the call letter (provided by you during 
the process of registration) should exactly match the name as appearing on the photo identity proof. Female 
candidates who have changed first/last/middle name post marriage must take special note of this. If there is any 
mismatch between the name indicated in the Call Letter and Photo Identity Proof you will not be allowed to 
appear for the exam.  In case of candidates who have changed their name will be allowed only if they 
produce original Gazette notification/their original marriage certificate/ affidavit in original. 
 

[PAGE 6]
6 
 
(8) Your responses (answers) will be analysed with other candidates to detect patterns of similarity of right and 
wrong answers. If in the analytical procedure adopted in this regard, it is inferred/concluded that the responses 
have been shared and scores obta ined are not genuine/valid, your candidature may be cancelled. Any 
candidate who is found copying or receiving or giving assistance or engaging in any behaviour unbecoming of a 
candidate will not be considered for assessment. The IFSCA may take further action against such candidates as 
deemed fit by it. 
(9) You should bring with you a ball-point pen. You are allowed to bring your own ink stamp pad (blue/black ink). A 
sheet of paper will be provided which can be used for rough work or taking down the question number you 
would like to review at the end of the test before submitting your answers. After the test is over you MUST 
submit this sheet of paper along with the Call Letter to the Invigilator. 
(10) The possibility for occurrences of some problem in the administration of the examination cannot be ruled out 
completely which may impact test delivery and/or result from being generated. In that event, every effort wi ll be 
made to rectify such problem, which may include the conduct of another examination if considered necessary. 
Decision of the test conducting body in this regard shall be final. Candidates not willing to accept such change 
shall loose his/her candidature for this exam. 
(11) If the examination is held in more than one session, the scores across various sessions will be equated to adjust 
for slight differences in difficulty level of different test batteries used across sessions. More than one session are 
required if the nodes capacity is less or some technical disruption takes place at any centre or for any candidate. 
(12) Anyone found to be disclosing, publishing, reproducing, transmitting, storing or facilitating transmission and 
storage of test contents in any form or any information therein in whole or part thereof or by any means verbal or 
written, electronic or mechanical or taking away the papers supplied in the examination hall or found to be in 
unauthorised possession of test content is likely to be prosecuted. 
(13) Instances for providing incorrect information and/or process violation by a candidate detected at any stage of the 
selection, process will lead to disqualification of the candidate from the selection process and he/she will not be 
allowed to appear in any IFSCA's recruitment process in the future. If such instances go undetected during the 
current selection process but are detected subsequently, such disqualification will take place with retrospective 
effect. 
(14) Please read instructions related to Social Distancing given below. 
INSTRUCTIONS WITH REGARD TO SOCIAL DISTANCING 
1 Candidate is required to report at the exam venue strictly as per the time slot mentioned in the Call Letter. 
Latecomers will not be allowed to take the test. 
2 Mapping of ‘Candidate Roll Number and the Lab Number’ will NOT be displayed outside the exam venue, but the 
same will be intimated to the candidates individually at the time of entry of the candidate to the exam venue. 
3 Items permitted into the venue for Candidates 
Candidates will be permitted to carry only certain items with them into the venue.  
a. Mask 
b. Personal hand sanitizer (50 ml) 
c. A simple pen and ink stamp pad (blue/black ink) 
d. Exam related documents (Call Letter and Photocopy of the ID card stapled with it, ID Card in Original) 
e. In the case of Scribe Candidates - Scribe form duly filled and signed with Photograph affixed. 
        No other Items are permitted inside the venue. 
4 Candidate should not share any of their personal belonging/material with anyone 
5 Candidate should maintain safe social distance with one another. 
6 Candidate should stand in the row as per the instructions provided at venue. 
7 If a candidate is availing services of a scribe, then scribe also should bring their own Mask. 
8 On completion of examination, the candidates should move out in an orderly manner without crowding as 
instructed by the venue staff. 
 
WISH YOU GOOD LUCK 

[PAGE 7]
7 
 
 
 
 
 