SOURCE: 005_IFSCA career__2024 Vacancy Notification.pdf
PAGES: 30
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
Page 1 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRES AUTHORITY 
 
Recruitment of Officer Grade A (Assistant Manager) - 2024 
 
International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) is a statutory regulatory body 
established by an Act of Parliament, to develop and regulate the financial services market in the 
International Financial Services Centres in India. GIFT IFSC in GIFT City, Gandhinagar is the 
maiden IFSC in the country. The IFSC Authority has been empowered to exercise the powers of 
RBI, SEBI, IRDAI and PFRDA in respect of financial products, financial services, and financial 
institutions in the IFSC.  
 
IMPORTANT DATES TO REMEMBER 
Activity Important Dates 
On-Line Application and Payment of fee On-Line 28.03.2024 to 21.04.2024 
Availability of Call Letters on IFSCA website 
www.ifsca.gov.in  (for On-Line Examinations) 
Will be intimated by email/SMS one week 
before the exam 
Phase I On-Line Examination May/ June 2024 
Phase II On-Line Examination June/ July 2024 
Phase III Interview To be intimated 
 
Applicants desirous of applying for the job at IFSCA are hereby cautioned not to fall prey 
to any unscrupulous elements who may try to deceive candidates/public by false promises 
of securing jobs in IFSCA. In case any candidate comes across such offer/ practice, the 
same may be immediately brought to the notice of IFSCA at hr-manager@ifsca.gov.in with 
full details, such as name and contact details, of the elements indulging in such practice. 
 
I.  
a) IFSCA invites applications from Indian citizens for the post of Officer Grade A (Assistant 
Manager) as per the vacancy mentioned below. IFSCA reserves the right to fill up all the posts 
or not to fill up the posts at all.  
b) Out of 10 posts, 2 posts are earmarked for Legal Stream and the remaining 8 are for General 
Stream. 
 


[PAGE 2]
Page 2 of 30 
Number of posts Out of which 
PwBD*** 
 
Educational Qualification 
UR OBC SC ST EWS  Total 
3 3 1 1 2 10** 
 
 
1 ( Deaf and 
Hard of 
Hearing)* 
 
And 
 
1 (Locomotor 
Disability 
including 
cerebral palsy, 
leprosy cured, 
dwarfism, acid 
attack victims 
and muscular 
dystrophy) 
 
 
General Stream: 
Master’s Degree with 
specialization in Statistics/ 
Economics/ Commerce/ 
Business Administration 
(Finance) / Econometrics. 
or 
Bachelor’s degree in 
Information Technology/ 
Computer Science/ 
Master’s in Computer 
Application/ Information 
Technology. 
or 
Bachelor’s degree in 
commerce with appearing in 
“CA, CFA, CS and ICWA. 
or 
Bachelor’s degree in Law or 
in any other discipline from 
a recognized University. 
 
Legal Stream: 
Bachelor’s Degree in Law
from a recognized 
University/Institute. 
 
 
Notes: 
* Indicates backlog vacancies 
** Includes 2 posts for Legal stream earmarked to be filled up by candidates opting for legal stream 
with horizontal reservation, i.e., these posts shall be filled across all categories. After selection, 
they may be posted in the specialized departments and/or also in other departments/ Offices of 
IFSCA. Depending on requirements, IFSCA reserves the right to vary the number of vacancies 
between the streams and within total vacancies notified above. 
 
c) Candidates belonging to OBC category but falling in the 'Creamy Layer' are not entitled to 
OBC reservation. Reservations for Economically Weaker Sections (EWSs) in recruitment is 
governed by Office Memorandum No.36039/1/2019-Estt (Res) dated 31.01.2019 of 
Department of Personnel & Training, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, 
Government of India. 

[PAGE 3]
Page 3 of 30 
d) A candidate can apply for one stream only (either General or Legal) for which he/she is eligible 
to apply, as per their educational qualifications. In case a candidate applies more than once 
in a Single Stream and/ or applies for more than one stream, only the latest applications shall 
be considered valid and the other applications shall be rejected.  
e) Request for change/ correction in any particulars (including category) in the application form, 
once application is finally submitted, will not be entertained under any circumstances. No 
correspondence/ phone/ email will be entertained in this regard. Candidates are advised to fill 
up the online application carefully and furnish the correct information in the application. 
 
Disclaimer: “EWSs vacancies are tentative and subject to further directives of Government of 
India and outcome of any litigation. The appointment shall be provisional and shall be subject to 
the Income & Asset certificate being verified through proper channels”. Benefit of reservation 
under EWSs category can be availed upon production of an ‘Income and Asset Certificate’ for 
Financial Year 2022-23 issued by a Competent Authority on the format prescribed by the 
Government of India. 
 
Note: A Post Graduate Diploma in any discipline will be acceptable as educational requirement 
for General stream, provided the same is recognized as equivalent to a Master’ Degree in that 
discipline by Govt. of India. The onus to provide necessary document in this regard shall be on 
the candidates. 
 
II. ***Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD): 
 
a) The specified disabilities are: 
 
i. Blindness and Low Vision, 
ii. Deaf and Hard of Hearing, 
iii. Locomotor Disability including cerebral palsy, leprosy cured, dwarfism, acid attack 
victims and muscular dystrophy, 
iv. Autism, intellectual disability, specific learning disability and mental illness, 
v. Multiple disabilities and 
vi. Other disabilities (as per Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act, 2016) 
 
b) The PwBD candidates may belong to any category (i.e. GEN/ SC/ ST/ OBC/ EWSs) and they 
will be eligible for age relaxations. Reservation for PwBD is horizontal and within the overall 
vacancies for the posts. 
c) PwBD means a person with not less than forty per cent of a specified benchmark disability 
where specified disability has not been defined in measurable terms and are eligible to apply 
in the GEN/ SC/ ST/ OBC/ EWSs category. They will be eligible for concession in application 
fee. 
d) PwBD candidates should possess a latest disability certificate issued by a Competent 
Authority as prescribed vide ‘The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016’ (RPwD Act, 
2016). Such certificate shall be subject to verification/re-verification, as may be decided by 
the Board/ Competent Authority. 

[PAGE 4]
Page 4 of 30 
III. Age Limit (as on 01.02.2024): 
 
a) A candidate must not have exceeded the age of 30 years as on February 1, 2024.  
b) The upper age-limit prescribed above will be relaxable as follows: 
i. up to a maximum of five years for candidates belonging to a Scheduled Caste or a 
Scheduled Tribe if the posts are reserved for them; 
ii. up to a maximum of three years in the case of candidates belonging to Other Backward 
Classes who are eligible to avail of reservation applicable to such candidates if the posts 
are reserved for them; 
c) Only those candidates belonging to 'Non-Creamy Layer' are eligible to apply under OBC 
Category. The OBC candidates who belong to 'Creamy Layer' are not entitled to apply under 
OBC Category. Candidates belonging to OBC category but coming in the 'Creamy Layer' are 
not entitled to OBC reservation. They should indicate their category as ‘Unreserved’. 
Candidates belonging to the OBC 
i. (NCL) category should have OBC (NCL) valid certificate but earlier than the due date 
(closing date) of the application. OBC (NCL) certificate shall be submitted by such 
candidates at the time of interview (if called for interview). No request for extension of time 
for production of OBC (NCL) Certificate beyond the said date shall be entertained.   
ii. Candidates qualifying for Phase III i.e. interview under OBC category would be required 
to submit OBC(NCL) certificate, as mentioned in the advertisement, at the time of 
interview. In case candidates fail to produce the same at the time of interview, they will 
not be allowed to appear for interview. Further, their request for interview under General 
category will also not be entertained. 
d) Relaxation of 10 (ten) years for PwBD candidates shall be applicable whether the post is 
reserved or not. Relaxation of 13 (thirteen) years for PwBD (OBC) candidates where 
vacancies are reserved for OBC candidates. Relaxation of 15 (fifteen) years for PwBD 
(SC/ST) candidates where vacancies are reserved.  
e) Candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and the Other 
Backward Classes who are also covered under the category of Persons with Benchmark 
Disabilities will be eligible for grant of cumulative age-relaxation. 
f) Relaxation of 5 (five) years for Ex-servicemen. Ex-servicemen include Emergency 
Commissioned Officers/Short Service Commissioned Officers, who have rendered at least 
five years continuous Military Service and have been released a) on completion of assignment 
(including those whose assignment is due to be completed within one year from February 01, 
2024) otherwise than by way of dismissal or discharge on account of misconduct or 
inefficiency or b) on account of physical disability attributable to Military Service or c) on 
invalidment. Emergency Commissioned Officers/Short Service Commissioned Officers who 
have completed their initial period of assignment of five years of Military Service but whose 
assignment has been extended beyond five years and in whose case the Ministry of Defence 
issues certificates that they would be released on selection within three months from the date 
of receipt of offer of appointment. 
 
Where there is no vacancy reserved for OBC/SC/ST/EWS category candidates, such candidates 
can still apply. However, they will not be eligible for any relaxation. SC/ ST/PwBD candidates are 

[PAGE 5]
Page 5 of 30 
exempt from payment of application fee even in such case but will have to pay specified intimation 
charges. OBC/ PwBD/EWS candidates should possess a latest valid certificate to this effect 
issued by the Competent Authority in the prescribed Format.  
 
IV. MODE OF SELECTION:  
Mode of selection shall be a three-stage process i.e. Phase I (on-line screening examination 
consisting of two papers of 100 marks each), Phase II (on-line examination consisting of two 
papers of 100 marks each) and Phase III (Interview). 
 
a) Phase I On-Line Examination: 
 
An online screening examination consisting of two papers (Multiple Choice questions of 100 
marks each) will be held in May/June 2024 (tentatively). The exam will consist of: 
 
Paper Streams/ Subjects Maximum 
Marks Duration Cut off 
Paper 1 
(Common 
for both 
streams) 
Multiple choice questions  
General awareness (financial sector) -25 
questions X 1 mark each 
English language – 25 questions X 1 mark 
each 
Quantitative Aptitude – 25 questions X 1 mark 
each 
Test of Reasoning- 25 questions X 1 mark 
each 
100 60 minutes 30% 
 
Paper 2 
General Stream 
Multiple choice questions on General 
knowledge, Current events of national and 
international importance, Economic and social 
development (sustainable development, 
poverty, inclusion, and demographics), 
Commerce, Accountancy, Management, 
Finance and costing, Indian Economy, Global 
Economy, Five-year plans, Central 
Government’s initiatives/ Schemes in the 
financial sector. 
(50 questions X 2 marks each) 
(Please refer Annexure 1 for detailed syllabus) 
 
100 
 
60 minutes 
 
40% 
Legal Stream 
Multiple choice questions on Specialized 
subject related to stream (Please refer 
Annexure 2) 
 
100 
 
60 minutes 
 
40% 
Aggregate Cut off   40% 
 

[PAGE 6]
Page 6 of 30 
i. There shall be negative marking (1/4th of marks assigned to the question) for the Paper 1 and 
Paper 2 in Phase I. 
ii. There shall be a cut-off of minimum 30% for Paper 1 (no sectional cut-off shall be there) and 
a cut-off of minimum 40% for Paper 2 in Phase I. 
iii. Candidates would need to secure separate cut-off in each paper as mentioned at (ii) above 
as well as aggregate cut-off marks of 40% in Phase I exam to be shortlisted for Phase II. 
Marks obtained in Phase I shall be used only for shortlisting the candidates for Phase II 
examination process and will not be counted for final selection of the candidates. 
iv. Subject to the criteria mentioned at (iii) above, all the candidates who clear Phase I shall be 
shortlisted for Phase II. List of candidates shortlisted for Phase II will be made available on 
IFSCA website www.ifsca.gov.in . 
 
b) Phase II On-Line Examination: 
 
An on-line examination consisting of two papers of 100 marks each will be held in June/July 2024 
(tentatively). The papers shall be as follows: 
 
Paper Streams/ Subjects Maximum 
Marks Duration Cut 
off Weightage 
Paper 1 
(Common 
for both 
Streams) 
 English (Descriptive Test)  
Precis Writing – 35 marks 
Essay writing – 30 marks  
Comprehension- 35 marks 
100 60 
minutes 30% 1/3rd 
Paper 2 
General Stream 
Multiple choice questions on subjects like 
IFSCA Act, Union Budget, Economic 
Survey, Banking, Capital Market, 
Insurance, Pension Funds, Bullion, GIFT 
City, GIFT IFSC, IFSCA, Global Financial 
Centres etc. 
(50 questions X 2 marks each) 
(Please refer Annexure 1 for detailed 
syllabus) 
100 60 
minutes 40% 2/3rd 
Legal Stream 
Multiple choice questions on Specialized 
subject related to stream (Please refer 
Annexure 2) 
100 60 
minutes 40% 2/3rd 
Aggregate Cut off  40%  
 
i. Candidates shortlisted for Phase II will be issued new Hall Tickets. 
ii. There shall be negative marking (1/4th of marks assigned to the question) for Paper 2 in 
Phase II  
iii. There shall be a cut-off of minimum 30% for Paper 1 and a cut-off of minimum 40% for Paper 
2 in Phase II. 

[PAGE 7]
Page 7 of 30 
iv. Candidates would need to secure separate cut-off in each paper as mentioned above as well 
as aggregate cut-off marks of 40% in Phase II exam (weightage of 1/3rd for Paper 1 and 2/3rd 
for Paper 2) to be shortlisted for Phase III. 
v. However, the final cut-off marks for calling for Phase III (interview) will be decided by the 
Competent Authority in relation to number of vacancies. List of candidates shortlisted for 
Interview will be made available on IFSCA website www.ifsca.gov.in . The number of 
candidates to be short listed and called for interview shall be decided by the Authority based 
on the stream wise requirement. 
 
Note: All question papers (in both the Phases, except the test of English) will be set bilingually in 
Hindi and English. 
 
c) Interview:  
 
Only the shortlisted candidates will be called for interview. Application fee shall not be refunded 
to the candidates not shortlisted for Phase II and Interview. Weightage of marks obtained in Phase 
II will be 85%, while marks obtained in interview shall be given a weightage of 15%. 
 
IFSCA reserves the right to modify the selection procedure, if deemed fit. 
 
V. SERVICE CONDITIONS/ PAY AND ALLOWANCES: 
 
a) Probation: 
The successful candidates recruited for the post of Officer Grade ‘A’ shall undergo probation of 
two years. The candidates shall be confirmed in the services of IFSCA subject to their satisfactory 
performance during the probation period. 
 
b) Pay:  
The pay scale of officers in Grade A is Rs. 44500-2500(4)-54500-2850(7)-74450-EB-2850(4)-
85850-3300(1)-89150 (17 years). 
 
Presently, the gross emolument including IFSCA’s Contribution towards National Pension 
Scheme (NPS), Grade Allowance, Special Allowance, Dearness Allowance, Family Allowance, 
Local Allowance etc. at the minimum of this scale is approx. Rs. 1,43,000/- p.m. 
 
c) Benefits:  
Other benefits viz., Leave Fare Concession, Medical Expenses, Eye Refraction, Education 
Allowance, Financial Dailies, Book Grant, Briefcase, Conveyance Expenses, House Cleaning 
Allowance, Staff Furnishing Scheme, Scheme for Purchasing Computers, Subsidized Lunch 
Facility and all other benefits as admissible to an Officer in Grade A in IFSCA. 
 
d) Posting:  
The incumbent may be posted and transferred to any location in India or abroad where IFSCA 
has its Offices. The recruited officers may be posted to any department of IFSCA. 

[PAGE 8]
Page 8 of 30 
 
 
VI. EXAMINATION CENTRES: 
a) The Phase I and Phase II on-Line examination will be held at the following centres: 
 
Ahmedabad/ Gandhinagar Hyderabad/ Rangareddy Nasik 
Agartala Indore New Delhi-NCR 
 Chhatrapati Sambhaji Nagar Jaipur Panaji 
Bengaluru Kanpur Patna 
Bhubaneswar Kochi/ Ernakulam Prayagraj 
Chandigarh/ Mohali Kolkata/ Greater Kolkata Pune 
Chennai Lucknow Raipur 
Coimbatore Madurai Ranchi 
Dehradun Meerut Siliguri 
Guwahati Mumbai/MMR/Navi 
Mumbai/Thane 
Surat 
Haldwani Muzzafarpur Vijayawada 
Hubli - Dharwad Nagpur Vishakhapatnam 
 
Candidates can provide their preference of up to three centers for Phase I and one center for 
Phase II in the online application. The choice of Center by candidates for Phase I and Phase II 
Examinations can be different and must be indicated in the online application. Candidates will 
appear for the examination at an Examination Centre at their own risks and expenses. IFSCA 
does not make any arrangements for boarding/lodging of candidates. IFSCA will not be 
responsible for any injury or losses etc. of any nature during the course of Examination. 
 
NB: Notwithstanding the aforesaid provision, IFSCA reserves the right to change the Centres at 
its discretion. Candidates admitted to the examination will be informed of the timetable and place 
or places of examination. The candidates should note that no request for change of centre will be 
entertained. 
 
b) The venue for the Interview will be intimated to the shortlisted candidates in their interview call 
letters. 
 
VII. APPLICATION FEE (NON-REFUNDABLE) 
 
Category of Applicant Amount of Fee 
(Non-refundable) 
Unreserved/OBC/EWSs Rs. 1000/- as application fee cum intimation charges 
SC/ ST/PwBD Rs. 100/- as intimation charges 
 
 
 

[PAGE 9]
Page 9 of 30 
VIII. NOTE FOR PERSONS WITH BENCHMARK DISABILITIES: 
 
Definition of Person with Benchmark Disabilities 
 
a) Reservation has been provided to Persons with Benchmark Disabilities as per Section 34 of 
“Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act, 2016”. The disabilities specified in the Schedule of 
Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act, 2016 are as below: 
 
1. Physical Disability:  
  
A. Locomotor disability (a person's inability to execute distinctive activities associated with 
movement of self and objects resulting from affliction of musculoskeletal or nervous system or 
both), including:  
  
(a) "leprosy cured person" means a person who has been cured of leprosy but is suffering from:  
  
(i) loss of sensation in hands or feet as well as loss of sensation and paresis in the eye 
and eye-lid but with no manifest deformity;  
(ii) manifest deformity and paresis but having sufficient mobility in their hands and feet to 
enable them to engage in normal economic activity;  
(iii) extreme physical deformity as well as advanced age which prevents him/her from 
undertaking any gainful occupation, and the expression "leprosy cured" shall construed 
accordingly;  
(b) "cerebral palsy" means a Group of non-progressive neurological condition affecting body 
movements and muscle coordination, caused by damage to one or more specific areas of the 
brain, usually occurring before, during or shortly after birth;  
(c) "dwarfism" means a medical or genetic condition resulting in an adult height of 4 feet 10 inches 
(147 centimeters) or less;  
(d) "muscular dystrophy" means a group of hereditary genetic muscle disease that weakens the 
muscles that move the human body and persons with multiple dystrophy have incorrect and 
missing information in their genes, which prevents them from making the proteins they need for 
healthy muscles. It is characterised by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle 
proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue;  
(e) "acid attack victims" means a person disfigured due to violent assaults by throwing of acid or 
similar corrosive substance.  
  
B. Visual impairment:  
  
(a) "blindness" means a condition where a person has any of the following conditions, after best 
correction:  
(i) total absence of sight; or  
(ii) visual acuity less than 3/60 or less than 10/200 (Snellen) in the better eye with best 
possible correction; or  
(iii) limitation of the field of vision subtending an angle of less than 10 degree.  

[PAGE 10]
Page 10 of 30 
  
(b) "low-vision" means a condition where a person has any of the following conditions, namely:  
  
(i) visual acuity not exceeding 6/18 or less than 20/60 up to 3/60 or up to 10/200 (Snellen) 
in the better eye with best possible corrections; or  
(ii) limitation of the field of vision subtending an angle of less than 40 degree up to 10 
degree.  
  
C. Hearing impairment:  
  
(a) "deaf" means persons having 70 DB hearing loss in speech frequencies in both ears;  
  
(b) "hard of hearing" means person having 60 DB to 70 DB hearing loss in speech frequencies in 
both ears;  
  
D. "speech and language disability" means a permanent disability arising out of conditions such 
as laryngectomy or aphasia affecting one or more components of speech and language due to 
organic or neurological causes.  
  
2. Intellectual disability, a condition characterised by significant limitation both in intellectual 
functioning (reasoning, learning, problem solving) and in adaptive behavior which covers a range 
of every day, social and practical skills, including:  
  
(a) "specific learning disabilities" means a heterogeneous group of conditions wherein there is a 
deficit in processing language, spoken or written, that may manifest itself as a difficulty to 
comprehend, speak, read, write, spell, or to do mathematical calculations and includes such 
conditions as perceptual disabilities, dyslexia, dysgraphia, dyscalculia, dyspraxia and 
developmental aphasia;  
  
(b) "autism spectrum disorder" means a neuro-developmental condition typically appearing in the 
first three years of life that significantly affects a person's ability to communicate, understand 
relationships and relate to others, and is frequently associated with unusual or stereotypical rituals 
or behaviour.  
  
3. Mental behavior:  
  
"mental illness" means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception, orientation or memory 
that grossly impairs judgment, behaviour, capacity to recognize reality or ability to meet the 
ordinary demands of life, but does not include retardation which is a condition of arrested or 
incomplete development of mind of a person, specially characterised by sub normality of 
intelligence.  
  
4. Disability caused due to:  
  

[PAGE 11]
Page 11 of 30 
(a) chronic neurological conditions, such as:  
  
(i) "multiple sclerosis" means an inflammatory, nervous system disease in which the myelin 
sheaths around the axons of nerve cells of the brain and spinal cord are damaged, leading to 
demyelination and affecting the ability of nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord to communicate 
with each other;  
  
(ii) "parkinson's disease" means a progressive disease of the nervous system marked by tremor, 
muscular rigidity, and slow, imprecise movement, chiefly affecting middle-aged and elderly people 
associated with degeneration of the basal ganglia of the brain and a deficiency of the 
neurotransmitter dopamine.  
  
(b) Blood disorder:  
  
(i) "haemophilia" means an inheritable disease, usually affecting only male but transmitted by 
women to their male children, characterised by loss or impairment of the normal clotting ability of 
blood so that a minor would may result in fatal bleeding;  
  
(ii) "thalassemia" means a group of inherited disorders characterised by reduced or absent 
amounts of haemoglobin.  
  
(iii) "sickle cell disease" means a hemolytic disorder characterised by chronic anemia, painful 
events, and various complications due to associated tissue and organ damage; "hemolytic" refers 
to the destruction of the cell membrane of red blood cells resulting in the release of hemoglobin.  
 
5. Multiple Disabilities (more than one of the above specified disabilities) including deaf blindness 
which means a condition in which a person may have combination of hearing and visual 
impairments causing severe communication, developmental, and educational problems. 
 
 
Guidelines For Persons With Disabilities Using A Scribe 
 
The visually impaired candidates and candidates whose writing speed is adversely affected 
permanently for any reason can use their own scribe at their cost during the online examination. 
In all such cases where a scribe is used, the following rules will apply: 
 
 Candidate should ensure that he/ she is eligible to use a scribe as per the Government of 
India rules governing the recruitment of Persons with Benchmark Disabilities. 
 The candidate will have to arrange his / her own scribe at his/her own cost. 
 The scribe should be from an academic stream different from that stipulated for the post. 
 Both the candidate as well as scribe will have to give a suitable undertaking in the 
prescribed format with passport size photograph of the scribe along with call letter at the 
time of examination confirming that the scribe fulfils all the stipulated eligibility criteria for 
a scribe mentioned above. Further in case it later transpires that he/she did not fulfill any 

[PAGE 12]
Page 12 of 30 
laid down eligibility criteria or suppressed material facts the candidature of the applicant 
will stand cancelled, irrespective of the result of the online examination. Proforma of 
undertaking will be made available on IFSCA website on or before the Call Letters for the 
online examination are made available on the IFSCA website www.ifsca.gov.in . 
 Those candidates who use a scribe shall be eligible for compensatory time of 20 minutes 
for every hour of the examination or as otherwise advised. 
 A person acting as scribe for one candidate cannot be a scribe for another candidate. In 
addition, the scribe arranged by the candidate should not be a candidate for the same 
examination. If violation of the above is detected at any stage of the process, candidature 
of both the candidate and the scribe will be cancelled. Candidates eligible for and who 
wish to use the services of a scribe in the examination should invariably carefully indicate 
the same in the online application form. Any subsequent request may not be favorably 
entertained. 
 Only candidates registered for compensatory time will be allowed such concessions since 
compensatory time given to candidates shall be system based, it shall not be possible for 
the test conducting agency to allow such time if he / she is not registered for the same. 
Candidates not registered for compensatory time shall not be allowed such concessions. 
 During the exam, at any stage, if it is found that scribe is independently answering the 
questions, the exam session will be terminated and candidate’s candidature will be 
cancelled. The candidature of such candidates using the services of a scribe will also be 
cancelled if it is reported after the examination by the test administrator personnel that the 
scribe independently answered the questions. 
 
Guidelines for candidates with specified disabilities 
 In addition to instructions applicable to PwBD candidates (who have disability of 40% or 
more), following rule will apply for persons with specified disabilities covered under the 
definition of Section 2(s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of 
Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. persons having less than 40% disability and having 
difficulty in writing: 
 The facility of scribe and/or compensatory time shall be granted solely to those having 
difficulty in writing subject to production of a certificate to the effect that person concerned 
has limitation to write and that scribe is essential to write examination on his/her behalf 
from the competent medical authority of a Government healthcare institution as per 
prescribed proforma at Appendix - I 
 The person opting for the scribe should submit details of the scribe as per proforma at 
Appendix-II. 
 
Guidelines For Persons With Disabilities 
 
(i) A compensatory time of twenty minutes per hour shall be permitted for the candidates with 
locomotor disability and cerebral palsy where dominant (writing) extremity is affected to 
the extent of slowing the performance of function (minimum of 40% impairment) and for 
Visually Impaired candidates under Low Vision (who suffer from not less than 40% of 
disability). 

[PAGE 13]
Page 13 of 30 
(ii) Visually Impaired candidates (who suffer from not less than 40% of disability) may opt to 
view the contents of the test in magnified font and all such candidates will be eligible for 
compensatory time of 20 minutes for every hour of examination.  
Visually Impaired candidates under Low Vision, who use scribe, may skip the non-verbal 
questions, if any, in Test of Reasoning and questions on Table/Graph, if any, in Test of 
Quantitative Aptitude. The candidates will be awarded marks for such Section based on 
the overall average obtained in other Sections of the respective test. 
 
The scribe will be allowed to be used as per the guidelines issued vide Office Memorandum 
F.No.16-110/2003- DDIII dated February 26, 2013 of Government of India, Ministry of Social 
Justice and Empowerment, Department of Disability Affairs, New Delhi. 
 
The above guidelines are subject to change in terms of GOI guidelines/ clarifications, if any, from 
time to time. 
 
IX. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: 
 
a) Candidate who is eligible and desires to apply for the above post should submit an ON-LINE 
application with requisite fee/ intimation charges (wherever applicable). No other means/mode 
of application will be accepted. 
b) Fees sent in any other manner not prescribed in this advertisement and / or the application 
submitted without depositing the fee/ intimation charges would be rejected and no 
correspondence shall be entertained in this regard. 
c) Candidates should be satisfied with their eligibility for the post applied for. Candidates seeking 
reservation/ relaxation benefits available for SC/ST/OBC/EWS or any other category must 
ensure that they are entitled to such reservation/ relaxation as per eligibility prescribed. At the 
time of the interview, they should also be in possession of all the requisite valid certificates in 
the prescribed format in support of their claim as stipulated for such benefits and these 
certificates should be dated earlier than the due date (closing date) of the application. 
d) If the candidates are not eligible or have knowingly or willfully furnished incorrect or false 
particulars or suppressed material information, their candidature will be liable to be cancelled 
at any stage of the selection. If the candidate qualifies in the selection process and 
subsequently it is found that he/she does not fulfill the eligibility criteria, his/her candidature 
will be cancelled and if appointed, the appointment would be terminated without any notice or 
compensation. 
e) Candidates who are already in service of Govt./ Quasi-Govt. Organizations and Public Sector 
Banks/ Undertakings will have to produce a “No Objection Certificate” from their employer, at 
the time of Interview. Before appointment in IFSCA, a proper discharge certificate from the 
employer will have to be produced. 
f) Outstation candidates called for Interview will be reimbursed single AC Three Tier return 
railway fare for journey by the shortest route, subject to submission of necessary documentary 
evidence. 
g) IFSCA does not assume any responsibility for the candidates not being able to submit their 
applications within the last date. 

[PAGE 14]
Page 14 of 30 
h) In all matters regarding eligibility, conduct of examinations, interviews, assessment, 
prescribing minimum qualifying standards in both the Examination and Interview, in relation 
to number of vacancies and communication of result, IFSCA’s decision shall be final and 
binding on the candidates and no correspondence shall be entertained in this regard. Further, 
IFSCA reserves the right to relax any of the requirements for the candidates in deserving 
cases. IFSCA also reserves the right to cancel the advertisement, fully or partly on any 
grounds. The IFSCA reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of vacancies to 
be filled basing on the requirement. 
i) Canvassing in any form will disqualify the candidate. 
j) Please note that Corrigendum, if any, issued on the above advertisement, will be published 
only on IFSCA’s website www.ifsca.gov.in . 
k) Any resultant dispute arising out of this advertisement shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the 
Courts situated at Gandhinagar only. 
 
X. DOWNLOAD OF CALL LETTERS 
 
Candidates will have to visit the website www.ifsca.gov.in for downloading call letters for online 
examination. Intimation for downloading call letter will also be sent through email/SMS. Once the 
candidate clicks the relevant link, he/she can access the window for call letter download. The 
candidate is required to use (i) Registration Number/Roll Number, (ii) Password/Date of Birth for 
downloading the call letter. Candidate needs to affix recent recognizable photograph on the call 
letter which should be the same as provided during registration and appear at the examination 
centre with (i) Call Letter (ii) Photo Identity Proof as stipulated in this advertisement and also 
specified in the call letter and (iii) Photocopy of the same Photo Identity Proof as brought in 
original. 
 
XI. CENTRE INSTRUCTIONS  
 
a) The examination will be conducted online in venues given in the respective call letters. The 
addresses of the venue will be given in the call letter. Candidates are required to indicate the 
preferred test centre in the application form. IFSCA however, reserves the right to cancel any 
of the Examination Centres and/ or add some other Centres, depending upon the response, 
administrative feasibility, etc. 
 
b) As far as possible candidates will be allotted to a centre of his/her choice. However, IFSCA, 
reserves the right to allot the candidate to any centre other than the one he/she has opted for. 
 
c) No request for change of centre/venue/date/ session for Examination shall be entertained. 
 
d) Choice of centre once exercised by the candidate will be final. If sufficient number of 
candidates do not opt for a particular centre for "Online" examination, IFSCA reserves the 
right to allot any other adjacent centre to those candidates OR if the number of candidates is 
more than the capacity available for online exam for a centre, IFSCA reserves the right to allot 
any other centre to the candidate. 

[PAGE 15]
Page 15 of 30 
 
e) Candidate will appear for the examination at an Examination Centre at his/her own risk and 
expenses and IFSCA will not be responsible for any injury or losses etc., of any nature. 
 
XII. IDENTITY VERIFICATION 
In the examination hall as well as at the time of interview, the call letter along with original and a 
photocopy of the candidate’s currently valid photo identity (bearing exactly the same name as it 
appears on the call letter) such as PAN Card/ Passport/ Driving License/ Voter’s Card with 
photograph/ Bank Passbook with photograph/ Photo identity proof issued by a Gazetted Officer 
on official letterhead along with photograph/ Photo identity proof issued by a People’s 
Representative on official letterhead along with photograph/ valid recent Identity Card issued by 
a recognized College/ University/ Aadhaar card with a photograph/ E-Aadhaar card with a 
photograph/ Employee ID in original/ Bar Council Identity Card with photograph should be 
submitted to the invigilator for verification. The candidate’s identity will be verified with respect to 
his/her details on the call letter, in the Attendance List and requisite documents submitted. If 
identity of the candidate is in doubt the candidate may not be allowed to appear for the 
Examination. 
 
Ration Card and Learner’s Driving license are not a valid ID proof. 
 
Note: Candidates have to produce in original the photo identity proof and submit photocopy of 
the photo identity proof along with Examination Call Letter as well as the Interview Call Letter 
while attending the examination/ interview respectively, without which they will not be allowed to 
take up the examination/ interview. Candidates must note that the name as appearing on the call 
letter (provided during the process of registration) should exactly match the name as appearing 
on the photo identity proof. Female candidates who have changed first/last/middle name post 
marriage must take special note of this. If there is any mismatch between the name indicated in 
the Call Letter and Photo Identity Proof, the candidate will not be allowed to appear for the 
examination. In case of candidates who have changed their name, will be allowed only if they 
produce original Gazette notification / their original marriage certificate / affidavit in original. Photo 
ID should be valid as on the day of the examination. 
 
XIII. BIOMETRIC DATA – Capturing and Verification 
 
It has been decided to capture the biometric data (thumb impression) and the photograph of the 
candidates on the day of the Online Examination (Phase II) for the candidates who appear for the 
examination. 
 
The biometric data and photograph will be verified subsequently. Decision of the Biometric data 
verification authority with regard to its status (matched or mismatched) shall be final and binding 
upon the candidates. Candidates are requested to take care of the following points in order to 
ensure a smooth process. 
 
 If fingers are coated (stamped ink/ mehndi/ coloured, etc.), ensure to thoroughly wash 

[PAGE 16]
Page 16 of 30 
them so that coating is completely removed before the exam / interview / joining day. 
 If fingers are dirty or dusty, ensure to wash them and dry them before the fingerprint 
(biometric) is captured. 
 Ensure fingers of both hands are dry. If fingers are moist, wipe each finger to dry them. 
 If the primary finger (thumb) to be captured is injured/damaged, immediately notify the 
concerned authority in the test centre. 
 
XIV. ACTION AGAINST CANDIDATES FOUND GUILTY OF MISCONDUCT. 
Candidates are advised in their own interest that they should not furnish any particulars that are 
false, tampered with or fabricated and should not suppress any material information while 
submitting online application. 
(i) At the time of examination, interview or in a subsequent selection procedure, if a candidate is 
(or has been) found guilty of 
(ii) Using unfair means or 
(iii) Impersonating or procuring impersonation by any person or 
(iv) Misbehaving in the examination/interview hall or disclosing, publishing, reproducing, 
transmitting, storing or facilitating transmission and storage of contents of the test(s) or any 
information therein in whole or part thereof in any form or by any means, verbal or written, 
electronically or mechanically for any purpose or 
(v) Resorting to any irregular or improper means in connection with his/her candidature or 
(vi) Obtaining support for his/her candidature by any unfair means or 
(vii) The use of any mobile phone (even in switched off mode), pager or any electronic equipment 
or programmable device or storage media like pen drive, smart watches etc. or camera or 
blue tooth devices or any other equipment or related accessories either in working or switched 
off mode capable of being used as a communication device during the examination is strictly 
prohibited. Such a candidate may in addition to rendering himself/herself liable to criminal 
prosecution, be liable: 
a. To be disqualified from the examination for which he/she is a candidate. 
b. To be debarred, either permanently or for a specified period, from any examination 
conducted by IFSCA. 
c. For termination of service, if he/she has already joined IFSCA. 
 
XV. GENERAL INFORMATION: 
Not more than one application should be submitted by any candidate. In case of multiple 
applications, only the latest valid (completed) application will be retained, and the application fee/ 
intimation charges paid for the other multiple registration(s) will stand forfeited. 
 
Notes: 
 
 After completing the procedure of applying on-line including payment of fees, the candidate 
should take a printout of the system generated on-line application form, ensure that the 
particulars filled in are accurate and retain it along with Registration Number and Password 
for future reference. They should not send this printout to the IFSCA. If the online transaction 
has been successfully completed a Registration Number and Password will be generated. 

[PAGE 17]
Page 17 of 30 
Candidates should note their Registration Number and Password for future reference. 
 
 Please note that all the particulars mentioned in the online application including Name of the 
Candidate, Category, Date of Birth, Address, Mobile Number, Email ID, Centre of 
Examination, etc., will be considered as final and no change/modifications will be allowed after 
submission of the online application form. Candidates are hence requested to fill in the online 
application form with the utmost care as no correspondence regarding change of details will 
be entertained. The IFSCA will not be responsible for any consequences arising out of 
furnishing of incorrect and incomplete details in the application or omission to provide the 
required details in the application form. 
 
 An email/ SMS intimation with the Registration Number and Password generated on 
successful registration of the application will be sent to the candidate’s email ID/ Mobile 
Number specified in the online application form as a system generated acknowledgement. If 
candidates do not receive the email and SMS intimations at the email ID/ Mobile number 
specified by them, they may consider that their online application has not been successfully 
registered. 
 
 An online application which is incomplete in any respect such as without photograph and 
signature uploaded in the online application form/ unsuccessful fee payment will not be 
considered as valid. 
 
 Candidates are advised in their own interest to apply on-line much before the closing date and 
not to wait till the last date for depositing the fee to avoid the possibility of disconnection/ 
inability/ failure to log on to the website on account of heavy load on internet/website jam. 
 
 IFSCA does not assume any responsibility for the candidates not being able to submit their 
applications within the last date on account of the aforesaid reasons or for any other reason 
beyond the control of the IFSCA. 
 
 Please note that the above procedure is the only valid procedure for applying. No other mode 
of application or incomplete steps would be accepted, and such applications would be 
rejected. 
 
 Any information submitted by an applicant in his/ her application shall be binding on the 
candidate personally and he/she shall be liable for prosecution/ civil consequences in case 
the information/details furnished by him/ her are found to be false at a later stage. 
 
 Helpline: In case of any problem experienced in filling up the form, payment of 
fees/intimation charges, queries may be made at http://cgrs.ibps.in/. Do not forget to 
mention 'IFSCA - Officer Grade A 2024' in the subject of the email. 
 
XVI. OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 

[PAGE 18]
Page 18 of 30 
The decision of IFSCA in all matters relating to recruitment will be final and binding on the 
candidate. No correspondence or personal enquiries shall be entertained by the IFSCA in this 
behalf. 
 
CANDIDATES REPORTING LATE i.e. after the reporting time specified on the call letter for 
Examination will not be permitted to take the examination. The reporting time mentioned on the 
call letter is prior to the Start time of the test. Candidates may be required to be at the venue for 
about 4 hours prior to the start of examination for completion of various formalities such as 
verification and collection of various requisite documents, logging in, giving of instructions. 
 
XVII. OTHER CLAUSES 
 
1. The possibility of occurrence of some problem in the administration of the examination cannot 
be ruled out completely which may impact test delivery and/or result from being generated. In 
that event, every effort will be made to rectify such problem, which may include movement of 
candidates, delay in test. Conduct of a re-exam is at the absolute discretion of test conducting 
body. Candidates will not have any claim for a re-test. Candidates not willing to move or not 
willing to participate in the delayed process of test delivery shall be summarily rejected from 
the process. 
 
2. The decision of IFSCA in all matters relating to recruitment will be final and binding on the 
candidate. No correspondence or personal enquiries shall be entertained by the IFSCA in this 
behalf. 
 
3. If the examination is held in more than one session, the scores across various sessions will 
be equated to adjust for slight differences in difficulty level of different test batteries used 
across sessions. More than one session is required if the nodes capacity is less or some 
technical disruption takes place at any center or for any candidate. 
 
4. IFSCA would be analyzing the responses (answers) of individual candidates with those of 
other candidates to detect patterns of similarity of right and wrong answers. If in the analytical 
procedure adopted by IFSCA in this regard, it is inferred/ concluded that the responses have 
been shared and scores obtained are not genuine/ valid, IFSCA reserves right to cancel the 
candidature of the concerned candidates and the result of such candidates (disqualified) will 
be withheld. 
 
5. Instances for providing incorrect information and/or process violation by a candidate detected 
at any stage of the selection process will lead of disqualification of the candidate from the 
selection process and he/she will not be allowed to appear in any IFSCA recruitment process 
in the future. If such instances go undetected during the current selection process but are 
detected subsequently, such disqualification will take place with retrospective effect. 
 
6. Process for Arriving at Scores: 
The Scores of Online Examination are obtained by adopting the following procedure:  

[PAGE 19]
Page 19 of 30 
(i) Number of questions answered correctly by a candidate in each objective test is 
considered for arriving at the Corrected Score after applying penalty for wrong answers.  
(ii) The Corrected Scores so obtained by a candidate are made equivalent to take care of the 
minor difference in difficulty level, if any, in each of the objective tests held in different 
sessions to arrive at the Equated Scores* 
*Scores obtained by candidates on any test are equated to the base form by considering 
the distribution of scores of all the forms. 
(iii) Test wise scores and scores on total is reported with decimal point up to two digits.  
 
Note: Cutoffs are applied in two stages:  
(i) on scores in individual tests  
(ii) on Total Score  
 
XVIII. HOW TO APPLY 
DETAILED GUIDELINES/PROCEDURES FOR  
A. APPLICATION REGISTRATION 
B. PAYMENT OF FEES 
C. DOCUMENT SCAN AND UPLOAD 
 
Candidates are required to apply On-Line through the website www.ifsca.gov.in from 16.03.2024 
to 07.04.2024 and no other mode of application will be accepted. Candidates need not submit the 
system generated print out of the ON-LINE application to IFSCA's office. 
 
IMPORTANT POINTS TO BE NOTED BEFORE REGISTRATION 
Before applying online, candidates should- 
(i) scan their:  
a. photograph (4.5cm × 3.5cm) 
b. signature (with black ink) 
c. left thumb impression (on white paper with black or blue ink) 
d. a handwritten declaration (on a white paper with black ink) (text given below) 
e. ensuring that all these scanned documents adhere to the required specifications as 
given in XIX C 
(ii) Signature in CAPITAL LETTERS will NOT be accepted. 
(iii) The left thumb impression should be properly scanned and not smudged. (If a candidate is 
not having left thumb, he/she may use his/ her right thumb for applying.) 
(iv) The text for the handwritten declaration is as follows –  
“I, _______ (Name of the candidate), hereby declare that all the information submitted 
by me in the application form is correct, true and valid. I will present the supporting 
documents as and when required.”  
(v) The above-mentioned handwritten declaration has to be in the candidate’s handwriting and in 
English only. If it is written and uploaded by anybody else or in any other language, the 
application will be considered as invalid. (In the case of Visually Impaired candidates who 
cannot write may get the text of declaration typed and put their left-hand thumb impression 
below the typed declaration and upload the document as per specifications.) 

[PAGE 20]
Page 20 of 30 
(vi) Keep the necessary details/documents ready to make Online Payment of the requisite 
application fee/ intimation charges.  
(vii) Have a valid personal email ID and mobile no., which should be kept active till the completion 
of this Recruitment Process. IFSCA may send intimation to download call letters for the 
Examination etc. through the registered e-mail ID. In case a candidate does not have a valid 
personal e-mail ID, he/she should create his/her new e-mail ID and mobile no. before applying 
on-line and must maintain that email account and mobile number.  
XIX. APPLICATION FEES/ INTIMATION CHARGES (NON-REFUNDABLE) PAYMENT OF 
FEE ONLINE:    
 
Bank Transaction charges for Online Payment of application fees/intimation charges will have to 
be borne by the candidate.  
 
A. Application Registration 
1. Candidates to go to the IFSCA website www.ifsca.gov.in  click on the option "APPLY ONLINE" 
which will open a new screen. 
2. To register application, choose the tab "Click here for New Registration" and enter Name, 
Contact details and Email-id. A Provisional Registration Number and Password will be 
generated by the system and displayed on the screen. Candidate should note down the 
Provisional Registration Number and Password. An Email & SMS indicating the Provisional 
Registration number and Password will also be sent.  
3. In case the candidate is unable to complete the application form in one go, he / she can save 
the data already entered by choosing "SAVE AND NEXT" tab. Prior to submission of the online 
application candidates are advised to use the "SAVE AND NEXT" facility to verify the details 
in the online application form and modify the same if required. Visually Impaired candidates 
should fill the application form carefully and verify/ get the details verified to ensure that the 
same are correct prior to final submission. 
4. Candidates are advised to carefully fill and verify the details filled in the online application 
themselves as no change will be possible/ entertained after clicking the COMPLETE 
REGISTRATION BUTTON.  
5. The Name of the candidate or his /her father/ Husband etc. should be spelt correctly in the 
application as it appears in the Certificates/ Mark sheets/Identity proof. Any change/alteration 
found may disqualify the candidature. 
6. Validate your details and save your application by clicking the 'Validate your details' and 'Save 
& Next' button. 
7. Candidates can proceed to upload Photo & Signature as per the specifications given in the 
Guidelines for Scanning and Upload of Photograph and Signature detailed under point "C". 
8. Candidates can proceed to fill other details of the Application Form. 
9. Click on the Preview Tab to preview and verify the entire application form before 'COMPLETE 
REGISTRATION’. 
10. Modify details, if required, and click on 'COMPLETE REGISTRATION' ONLY after verifying 
and ensuring that the photograph, signature uploaded, and other details filled by you are 
correct. 
11. Click on 'Payment' Tab and proceed for payment. 

[PAGE 21]
Page 21 of 30 
12. Click on 'Submit' button.  
 
B. PAYMENT OF FEES 
ONLINE MODE  
1. The application form is integrated with the payment gateway and the payment process can 
be completed by following the instructions. 
2. The payment can be made by using Debit Cards (RuPay/Visa/MasterCard/Maestro), Credit 
Cards, Internet Banking, IMPS, Cash Cards/ Mobile Wallets. 
3. After submitting your payment information in the online application form, PLEASE WAIT FOR 
THE INTIMATION FROM THE SERVER. DO NOT PRESS BACK OR REFRESH BUTTON 
IN ORDER TO AVOID DOUBLE CHARGE 
4. On successful completion of the transaction, an e-Receipt will be generated. 
5. Non-generation of 'E-Receipt' indicates PAYMENT FAILURE. On failure of payment, 
Candidates are advised to login again using their Provisional Registration Number and 
Password and repeat the process of payment.  
6. Candidates are required to take a printout of the e-Receipt and online Application Form 
containing fee details. Please note that if the same cannot be generated, online transaction 
may not have been successful. 
7. For Credit Card users: All charges are listed in Indian Rupee. If you use a non-Indian credit 
card, your bank will convert to your local currency based on prevailing exchange rates. 
8. To ensure the security of your data, please close the browser window once your transaction 
is completed. 
9. There is facility to print application form containing fee details after payment of fees. 
 
C. Guidelines for scanning and Upload of Documents 
 
Before applying online, a candidate will be required to have a scanned (digital) image of his/her 
photograph, signature, left thumb impression and the hand written declaration as per the 
specifications given below. 
  
Photograph Image: (4.5cm × 3.5cm) 
 Photograph must be a recent passport style colour picture.  
 Make sure that the picture is in colour, taken against a light-coloured, preferably white, 
background.  
 Look straight at the camera with a relaxed face  
 If the picture is taken on a sunny day, have the sun behind you, or place yourself in the shade, 
so that you are not squinting and there are no harsh shadows  
 If you have to use flash, ensure there's no "red-eye"  
 If you wear glasses make sure that there are no reflections and your eyes can be clearly seen.  
 Caps, hats and dark glasses are not acceptable. Religious headwear is allowed but it must 
not cover your face.  
 Dimensions 200 x 230 pixels (preferred)  
 Size of file should be between 20kb–50 kb  
 Ensure that the size of the scanned image is not more than 50kb. If the size of the file is more 

[PAGE 22]
Page 22 of 30 
than 50 kb, then adjust the settings of the scanner such as the DPI resolution, no. of colours 
etc., during the process of scanning. 
 
Signature, left thumb impression and hand-written declaration Image:  
 The applicant has to sign on white paper with Black Ink pen.  
o Dimensions 140 x 60 pixels (preferred)  
o Size of file should be between 10kb – 20kb for signature and 20kb - 50kb for left thumb 
impression. 
o Ensure that the size of the scanned image is not more than 20kb  
 
 The applicant has to put his left thumb impression on a white paper with black or blue ink. 
o File type: jpg / jpeg 
o Dimensions: 240 x 240 pixels in 200 DPI (Preferred for required quality) i.e 3 cm * 3 
cm (Width * Height)  
o File Size: 20 KB – 50 KB 
 The applicant has to write the declaration in English clearly on a white paper with black ink. 
o File type: jpg / jpeg 
o Dimensions: 800 x 400 pixels in 200 DPI (Preferred for required quality) i.e 10 cm * 5 
cm (Width * Height) 
o File Size: 50 KB – 100 KB 
 The signature, left thumb impression and the hand written declaration should be of the 
applicant and not by any other person.  
 If the Applicant’s signature on the attendance sheet or Call letter, signed at the time of the 
examination, does not match the signature uploaded, the applicant will be disqualified.  
 Signature / Handwritten declaration in CAPITAL LETTERS shall NOT be accepted. 
 
Scanning the documents: 
 Set the scanner resolution to a minimum of 200 dpi (dots per inch)  
 Set Colour to True Colour 
 File Size as specified above  
 Crop the image in the scanner to the edge of the photograph/signature/ left thumb impression 
/ handwritten declaration, then use the upload editor to crop the image to the final size (as 
specified above).  
 The image file should be JPG or JPEG format. An example file name is: image01.jpg or 
image01.jpeg. Image dimensions can be checked by listing the folder files or moving the 
mouse over the file image icon. 
 Candidates using MS Windows/MSOffice can easily obtain documents in .jpeg format by using 
MS Paint or MSOffice Picture Manager. Scanned documents in any format can be saved in 
.jpg / .jpeg format by using ‘Save As’ option in the File menu. Size can be adjusted by using 
crop and then resize option. 
 
Procedure for Uploading the documents.  
 While filling in the Online Application Form the candidate will be provided with separate links 
for uploading Photograph, signature, left thumb impression and hand written declaration  

[PAGE 23]
Page 23 of 30 
 Click on the respective link “Upload Photograph / signature / Upload left thumb impression / 
hand written declaration”  
 Browse and select the location where the Scanned Photograph / signature / left thumb 
impression / handwritten declaration file has been saved.  
 Select the file by clicking on it.  
 Click the ‘Open/Upload’  
 If the file size and format are not as prescribed, an error message will be displayed. 
 Preview of the uploaded image will help to see the quality of the image. In case of unclear / 
smudged, the same may be re-uploaded to the expected clarity /quality.  
 
Your Online Application will not be registered unless you upload your Photograph, signature, left 
thumb impression and handwritten declaration as specified. 
Note: 
1) In case the face in the photograph or signature or left thumb impression or the handwritten 
declaration is unclear / smudged the candidate’s application may be rejected.  
2) After uploading the Photograph / signature / left thumb impression / handwritten declaration 
in the online application form candidates should check that the images are clear and have 
been uploaded correctly. In case the photograph or signature or left thumb impression or the 
handwritten declaration is not prominently visible, the candidate may edit his/ her application 
and re-upload his/ her photograph or signature or left thumb impression or the hand written 
declaration, prior to submitting the form.  
3) Candidate should also ensure that photo is uploaded at the place of photo and signature at 
the place of signature. If photo in place of photo and signature in place of signature is not 
uploaded properly, candidate will not be allowed to appear for the exam. 
4) Candidate must ensure that Photo to be uploaded is of required size and the face should be 
clearly visible. 
5) If the photo is not uploaded at the place of Photo Admission for Examination will be 
rejected/denied. Candidate him/herself will be responsible for the same. 
6) Candidates should ensure that the signature uploaded is clearly visible. 
7) After registering online candidates are advised to take a printout of their system generated 
online application forms. 
 
 
****** 
  

[PAGE 24]
Page 24 of 30 
Annexure 1 
Syllabus for Paper 2 of Phase I in General Stream: 
 
1. General knowledge, Current events of national and international importance 
2. Economic and social development (sustainable development, poverty, inclusion, and 
demographics)  
(i) Growth and Development  
a) Measurement of growth: National Income and per capita income 
b) Poverty Alleviation and Employment Generation in India 
c) Sustainable Development and Environmental issues. 
(ii) Social Structure in India  
a) Multiculturalism  
b) Demographic Trends 
c) Urbanisation and Migration  
d) Gender Issues – Social Justice 
3. Commerce and Accountancy  
(i) Accounting as a financial information system; 
(ii) Accounting Standards with specific reference to Accounting for Depreciation, 
Inventories, Revenue Recognition, Fixed Assets, Foreign Exchange Transactions, 
Investments. 
(iii) Cash Flow Statement, Fund flow statement, Financial statement analysis; Ratio 
analysis; 
(iv) Accounting for Share Capital Transactions including Bonus Shares, Right Shares. 
(v) Employees Stock Option and Buy-Back of Securities. 
(vi) Preparation and Presentation of Company Final Accounts 
4. Management  
(i) Management: its nature and scope; The Management Processes; Planning, 
Organization, Staffing, Directing and Controlling; 
(ii) The Role of a Manager in an Organization. Leadership: The Tasks of a Leader; 
(iii) Leadership Styles; Leadership Theories; A successful Leader versus an effective 
Leader. 
(iv) Human Resource Development: Concept of HRD; Goals of HRD; 
(v) Motivation, Morale and Incentives: Theories of Motivation; How Managers Motivate; 
Concept of Morale; Factors determining morale; Role of Incentives in Building up 
Morale. 
(vi) Communication: Steps in the Communication Process; Communication Channels; 
Oral versus Written Communication; Verbal versus non-verbal Communication; 
upward, downward and lateral communication; Barriers to Communication, Role of 
Information Technology. 
(vii) Corporate Governance: Factors affecting Corporate Governance; Mechanisms of 
Corporate Governance  
5.  Finance  
(i) Financial System 
a) Role and Functions of Regulatory bodies in Financial Sector. 

[PAGE 25]
Page 25 of 30 
(ii) Financial Markets 
a) Primary and Secondary Markets (Forex, Money, Bond, Equity, etc.), functions, 
instruments, recent developments. 
(iii) General Topics 
a) Basics of Derivatives: Forward, Futures and Swap 
b) Recent Developments in the Financial Sector 
c) Financial Inclusion- use of technology 
d) Alternate source of finance, private and social cost-benefit, Public-Private 
Partnership 
e) Direct and Indirect taxes; Non-tax sources of Revenue, GST, Finance 
Commission, Fiscal Policy, Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act 
(FRBM), 
f) Inflation: Definition, trends, estimates, consequences, and remedies (control): WPI, 
CPI - components and trends. 
g) Financial Risk Management  
6. Costing  
(i) Overview of Cost and Management Accounting - Introduction to Cost and 
Management Accounting, Objectives and Scope of Cost and Management 
Accounting. 
(ii) Methods of Costing - Single Output/ Unit Costing, Job Costing, Batch Costing, 
Contract Costing, Process/ Operation Costing, Costing of Service Sectors. 
(iii) Basics of Cost Control and Analysis - (i) Standard Costing, (ii) Marginal Costing, (iii) 
Budget and Budgetary Control. 
(iv) Lean System and Innovation:- 
a) Introduction to Lean System 
b) Just-in-Time (JIT) 
c) Kaizen Costing  
d) 5 Ss 
e) Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) 
f) Cellular Manufacturing/ One-Piece Flow Production Systems 
g) Six Sigma (SS) 
h) Introduction to Process Innovation and Business Process Re-engineering (BPR). 
 
7. Indian Economy & Global Economy  
(i) Demand and Supply, Market Structures, National Income: Concepts and 
Measurement, Classical & Keynesian Approach Determination of output and 
employment, Consumption Function, Investment Function, Multiplier and 
Accelerator, Demand and Supply for Money , IS – LM, Inflation and Phillips Curve, 
Business Cycles  
(ii) Balance of Payments, Foreign Exchange Markets, Inflation, Monetary and Fiscal 
Policy, Non-banking Financial Institutions.  
(iii) Role of International Financial Institutions: BIS, IOSCO, IMF & World Bank.  
8. Central Government’s initiatives/ Schemes in the financial sector. 
 

[PAGE 26]
Page 26 of 30 
Syllabus for Paper 2 of Phase II in General Stream: 
1. IFSCA Act, IFSCA, IFSC, GIFT IFSC, GIFT City and Global Financial Centres 
2. Union Budget — Concepts, approach and broad trends & Economic Survey 
3. Banking  
(i) Structure and Functions of Financial Institutions 
(ii) Functions of Reserve Bank of India 
(iii) Banking System in India – Structure and Developments, Financial Institutions – 
SIDBI, EXIM Bank, NABARD, NHB, NaBFID etc. 
(iv) Recent Developments in Global Financial System and its impact on Indian Financial 
System 
(v) Role of Information Technology in Banking and Finance 
(vi) Non-Banking System 
(vii) Developments in Digital Payments 
4. Capital Market  
(i) Role and Functions of Regulatory bodies in Financial Sector. 
(ii) Primary and Secondary Markets (Forex, Money, Bond, Equity, etc.), functions, 
instruments, recent developments 
(iii) Basics of Derivatives: Forward, Futures and Swap 
(iv) Spot and Derivative market of Precious Metals 
5. Insurance  
(i) History of Indian Insurance, principles of Insurance; 
(ii) Risk and uncertainty, pooling and diversification of risk, Indemnity and Insurable 
interest; 
(iii) Legal foundations of Insurance, basics in Group/Health Insurance/Pensions; 
Intermediation: role in mobilising savings, evolution of various types and 
Bancassurance in India; 
(iv) Functions performed by Insurers: Product design, pricing, distribution, underwriting, 
claims, Investment and Reinsurance; 
(v) Insurance lines and products: Property-Liability, Life Insurance and Annuities and 
Health Insurance; Liability risks and Insurance, valuation and Solvency requirements, 
Specialist Insurance lines in India - Agricultural and Export Credit Guarantee; 
Reinsurance, GIC of India, obligator sessions and retention of risk within the 
Country. 
6. Pension Sector  
(i) Status of pension sector in India 
(ii) Types of retirement schemes in India and their features 
(iii) National Pension System 
(iv) Atal Pension Yojana 
(v) Annuity Plans 
(vi) Basics of investment 
 
  

[PAGE 27]
Page 27 of 30 
Annexure 2 
 
Syllabus for Paper 2 of Phase I & II in Legal Stream: 
Phase I 
Sl. 
No. 
Subject Weightage*  
1 Constitution of India – Preamble, Part I, Part III, Part IV, Part IVA, Part V, 
Part VI, Part VIII, Part IXA, Part IXB, Part XI. 
20% 
2 Contract Law – Indian Contract Act, 1872; Sale of Goods Act, 1930; 
Indian Partnership Act, 1932; Specific Relief Act, 1963. 
25% 
3 Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – (Part I, Part II, Part III, Part IV, Part V, 
Part VII, Schedule 1) 
25% 
4 The Limitation Act, 1963 
5 Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – Chapter III, Chapter IV, Chapter V. 
6 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Part I 
7 Administrative Law 20% 
8 Jurisprudence and Interpretation of Statutes 
9 Important Latin terms and maxims  
10 Law of Torts and Consumer Protection Act, 2019 10% 
*Weightages are indicative only 
 
Phase II 
Sl. 
No. 
Subject Weightage*  
1 Criminal Law – Indian Penal Code, 1860 (Chapters I, II, III, IV, V, VA, VI, 
IX, XVII, XXI, XXII, XXIII);  
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. 
30% 
2 Law of Evidence – Indian Evidence Act, 1872 
3 Corporate Law –  
Companies Act, 2013;  
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008;  
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (Part I, Part II) 
30% 
4 IFSCA Act and the following Acts:  
1. The Reserve Bank of India Act,1934  
2. The Insurance Act, 1938  
3. The Banking Regulation Act, 1949  
4. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act,1956  
5. The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act, 1961  
6. The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972  
7. The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992  
8. The Depositories Act, 1996  
9. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999  
10. The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999  
40% 

[PAGE 28]
Page 28 of 30 
11. The Credit Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005  
12. The Government Securities Act, 2006  
13. The Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007  
14. The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 2013 
15. The Factoring Regulation Act, 2011 
*Weightages are indicative only 
  

[PAGE 29]
Page 29 of 30 
Appendix-I  
Certificate for person with specified disability covered under the definition of Section 2 (s) 
of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, 
i.e. persons having less than 40% disability and having difficulty in writing  
 
This is to certify that, we have examined Mr/Ms/Mrs …………. (name of the candidate), S/o /D/o 
……………………, a resident of ………………(Vill/PO/PS/District/State), aged …………….. yrs, 
a person with ……………………. (nature of disability/condition), and to state that he/she has 
limitation which hampers his/her writing capability owing to his/her above condition. He/she 
requires support of scribe for writing the examination.  
 
2. The above candidate uses aids and assistive device such as prosthetics & orthotics, hearing 
aid (name to be specified) which is /are essential for the candidate to appear at the examination 
with the assistance of scribe.  
 
3. This certificate is issued only for the purpose of appearing in written examinations conducted 
by recruitment agencies as well as academic institutions and is valid upto __________ (it is valid 
for maximum period of six months or less as may be certified by the medical authority)  
 
 
Signature of medical authority  
(Signature & 
Name) 
(Signature & Name) (Signature & 
Name) 
(Signature & 
Name) 
(Signature & 
Name) 
Orthopedic / 
PMR specialist 
Clinical Psychologist/ 
Rehabilitation 
Psychologist/Psychiatrist 
/ Special Educator 
Neurologist (if 
available) 
Occupational 
therapist (if 
available) 
Other 
Expert, as 
nominated 
by the 
Chairperso n 
(if any) 
(Signature & Name) 
Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Chief District Medical Officer………Chairperson 
 
 
 
Name of Government Hospital/Health Care Centre with Seal  
 
 
Place:  
Date:  
  

[PAGE 30]
Page 30 of 30 
Appendix-II 
Letter of Undertaking by the person with specified disability covered under the definition 
of Section 2 (s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) 
of the said Act, i.e. persons having less than 40% disability and having difficulty in writing  
 
I ____________________, a candidate with __________________ (nature of disability/condition) 
appearing for the ______________________(name of the examination) bearing Roll No. 
___________________________ at _______________________ (name of the centre) in the 
District ____________________, ____________________________ (name of the State). My 
educational qualification is _____________________.  
 
2. I do hereby state that __________________________ (name of the scribe) will provide the 
service of scribe for the undersigned for taking the aforementioned examination.  
 
3. I do hereby undertake that his qualification is ______________________. In case, 
subsequently it is found that his qualification is not as declared by the undersigned and is beyond 
my qualification. I shall forfeit my right to the post or certificate/diploma/degree and claims relating 
thereto. 
 
 
 (Signature of the candidate) 
 
 (counter signature by the parent/guardian, if the candidate is minor)  
 
Place:  
 
Date: 