SOURCE: 021_IFSCA publications__RI Regulations Consultation 2023.pdf
PAGES: 11
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
Page 1 of 11 
 
CONSULTATION PAPER ON PROPOSED  
IFSCA (RE-INSURANCE) REGULATIONS, 2023 
  
Objective:  
 
The objective of this consultation paper is to seek comments / views/ suggestions from 
public on the proposed International Financial Services Authority (Re-insurance) Regulations, 
2023. 
 
Background: 
 
1. The International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) is the unified regulator 
for the development and regulation of financial products, financial services and financial 
institutions in the International Financial Services Centres (IFSCs) in India.  
 
2. To facilitate the growth of insurance & reinsurance sector and to provide best in class 
regulatory framework, which is at par with top international jurisdictions, IFSCA has 
already issued relevant regulations. In order to further strengthen the regula tory 
framework on oversight and control of inward and outward arrangement of re-insurance 
by the IIO ,  IFSCA is proposing to notify comprehensive regulations by adopting 
international best practices. 
 
3. The proposed IFSCA (Re-insurance) Regulations, 2023 inter alia provide for :   
 
(1) Re-insurance Strategy and Re-insurance Programme (RSRP) 
 
(a) Every IIO shall develop and document its Re -insurance Strategy and Re -
insurance Programme (RSRP) which shall form an integral part of the IIO’s 
overall underwriting strategy and risk management philosophy.  
 
(b) The RSRP shall be approved by the Board at least thirty days prior to 
commencement of accounting year. 
 
(2) Re-insurance contract and Risk Transfer : Any contract classified as a re -
insurance contract shall meet the risk transfer requirements and protect the ceding 
insurer from negative financial impacts arising from the underlying insurance 
business ceded.  
 
(3) Re-insurance and Retrocession Requirements : Every IIO shall formulate  a 
segment-wise retention policy duly approved by its Board and shall maximise the 
retention commensurate with its financial strength and quality of risk while 
ensuring that the re-insurance arrangements are not fronting. 
 
 
 

[PAGE 2]
Page 2 of 11 
 
4. The dr aft regulations are placed on the website of the IFSCA at 
https://ifsca.gov.in/PublicConsultation.  General public and stakeholders are requested to 
forward their comments / suggestions through e-mail to Department of Insurance, IFSCA 
at insurance-dept@ifsca.gov.in with copy to Mr. Bhaskar Khadakbhavi at 
bhaskar.khadakbhavi@ifsca.gov.in and Nitin Gupta at g.nitin@ifsca.gov.in on or before  
11th March, 2023 in the attached format.  It is further requested to provide comments in 
MS Word or MS Excel format only.  
 
*********** 
  

[PAGE 3]
Page 3 of 11 
 
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRES AUTHORITY  
 
NOTIFICATION 
 
Gandhinagar, the __/__ , 2023 
 
DRAFT - International Financial Services Centres Authority (Re -insurance) 
Regulations, 2023 
 
F. No. IFSCA/2022-23/GN/REGxxx.  - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 28 read 
with sections 12 and 13 of the International Financial Services Centres Authorit y Act, 2019, 
and clause (zd) of sub-section (2) of Section 114A of the Insurance Act, 1938, the International 
Financial Services Centres Authority hereby makes the following regulations, namely - 
 
CHAPTER  I 
 
General 
 
1. Short title, commencement and applicability - 
 
(1) These regulations may be called  the International Financial Services Centre 
Authority (Re-insurance) Regulations, 2023. 
 
(2) These regulations shall come into force from the date of their publication in the 
Official Gazette.  
 
(3) Unless otherwise specified herein, these regulations shall be  applicable to all 
International Financial Services Centres Insurance Offices (IIOs).    
 
2. Objectives –  
 
To provide framework for oversight and control of inward and outward arrangement of 
re-insurance by the International Financial Service Centre Insurance Offices (IIOs), 
wherein a part of the risks assumed by an IIO is ceded to another IIO or the re-insurer. 
 
3. Definitions –  
 
(1)  In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires – 
 
(a) ‘accounting year’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause 
(ii) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 4 of the International Financial 
Services Centres Authority (Preparation and Presentation of Financial 
Statements of International Financial Service Centre Insurance Offices) 
Regulations 2022;  

[PAGE 4]
Page 4 of 11 
 
(b) ‘Act’ means the International Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 2019 
(50 of 2019); 
  
(c) ‘Alternate Risk Transfer’  or ‘ART’ means non-traditional structured re -
insurance solutions tailored according to specific needs and profile of an IIO, 
Indian insurer, foreign insurer or foreign re-insurer;   
 
(d) ‘Authority’ or ‘IFSCA’ means the International Financial Services Centres 
Authority established under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Act; 
 
(e) ‘board’ means the board of directors of an IIO ; or the Board of the Parent 
Entity of an IIO, in case the IIO is in an unincorporated form;   
 
(f) ‘cedant’ means an IIO who underwrites direct insurance business and 
contractually cedes  a part of the risk to re-insurer; 
 
(g) 'cession' means the part of risk passed to a re-insurer by the cedant; 
 
(h) 'cover note' means a written document, detailing the terms and conditions of 
the re -insurance contract, issued by re -insurer, composite or re -insurance 
broker authorised by the re-insurer; 
 
(i) ‘Domestic Tariff Area’ or ‘DTA’ means the whole of India (including the 
territorial waters and continental shelf) but does not include the areas of the 
Special Economic Zones established under The Special Economic Zones 
Act, 2005 (28 of 2005);  
 
(j) ‘foreign insurer or foreign re-insurer’ for the purposes of these regulations, 
means an insurer or re -insurer carrying on business of re -insurance outside  
the International Financial Services Centres  or DTA;  
 
(k) ‘fronting’ means a process of transferring r isk in which an Indian Insurer 
cedes or retro -cedes most or all of the assumed risk to a re -insurer or 
retrocessionaire;  
 
(l) ‘Indian Insurer’, for the purpose of these regulations, means an ‘insurer’ as 
defined under sub-section (9) of section 2 of the Insur ance Act, 1938, who 
has been granted certificate of registration by the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India;  
 
(m) ‘IRDAI’ means The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of 
India constituted under the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
Act, 1999 (41 of 1999); 
 

[PAGE 5]
Page 5 of 11 
 
(n) ‘insurance segment’, for the purpose of these regulations, means insurance 
or re -insurance business transacted by an IIO in any one or more of the  
following segment:  
 
(i) Fire (Other than Oil & Energy); 
(ii) Marine Hull; 
(iii) Marine Cargo; 
(iv) Engineering; 
(v) Aviation; 
(vi) Motor; 
(vii) Health (including Personal Accident & Travel), other than policies 
issued by insurers transacting Life Insurance business; 
(viii) Crop; 
(ix) Trade Credit; 
(x) Oil & Energy; 
(xi) Liability; 
(xii) Miscellaneous; 
(xiii) Life (including health insurance policies issued by Life Insurers);  
(xiv) Any other segment (under Miscellaneous segment) which contributes 
more than ten percent of the Gross Written Premium of the 
Miscellaneous segment; 
(xv) Any other segment as may be specified by the Authority f rom time to 
time. 
 
(o) ‘International Financial Services Centre Insurance Office’ or ‘IIO’ shall 
have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (k) of sub -regulation 
(1) of regulation 3 of the International Financial Services Centres Authority 
(Registration of Insurance Business) Regulations 2021; 
 
(p) ‘Parent Entity’ or ‘Head Office’ shall have the same meaning as assigned 
to it under clause (q) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3 of the International 
Financial Services Centres Authority (Registration of Insurance Business) 
Regulations, 2021; 
 
(q) ‘re-insurance’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under sub -
section (16B) of section 2 of the Insurance Act, 1938;  
 
(r) 're-insurance contract' refers to a commercial agreement which is legally 
binding on all the parties evidenced by a Re-insurance Slip or Cover Note or 
any other suitable document; 
 
(s) ‘re-insurance slip’ refers to a document, which provides the abridged details 
of the risk, terms and conditions offered for re-insurance; 
 

[PAGE 6]
Page 6 of 11 
 
(t) ‘re-insurer’ for the purpose of these regulations, means an IIO, Indian 
Insurer, foreign insurer or re-insurer carrying out re-insurance business; 
 
(u) 'retention' means the portion of the risk, which an IIO assumes for its own 
account; 
 
(v) 'retrocession' means a re-insurance transaction whereby a part of assumed 
reinsured risk is further ceded to another re-insurer; 
 
(w) 'treaty' means a re-insurance contract between a cedant and a re -insurer or 
between a re -insurer and a retrocessionaire  which stipulates the technical 
particulars and financial terms applicable to the re -insurance of defined 
class(es) or segment(s) of business; 
 
(2)  Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the 
Act or Acts mentioned in the First Schedule to the Act or any rules, regulations or 
notifications made thereunder, shall have the same meanings respectively assigned 
to them  in those Acts, rules or regulations or any statutory modification or re -
enactment thereto, as the case may be. 
 
CHAPTER II 
 
Re-insurance Strategy and Objectives of Re-insurance Programme 
 
4. Re-insurance strategy and re-insurance programme -  
 
(1) Every IIO shall develop and document its Re-insurance Strategy and Re-insurance 
Programme (RSRP) , which shall form an integral part of the IIO’s overall 
underwriting strategy and risk management philosophy.  
 
(2)  The policies and procedures for selecting and monitoring re -insurance 
arrangements as well as management responsibilities and controls  including re-
insurance management systems shall be included in the RSRP.   
 
(3) An IIO, ceding the risk shall inter-alia clearly document the risk concentration 
levels and ceding limits as per its risk appetite.   
 
(4) The senior management of the IIO or Parent Entity of the IIO, as the case may be, 
shall –  
 
(a) develop, implement and mainta in RSRP which shall be  relevant  to the 
operations of the IIO and shall  ensure that the IIO has sufficient resources to 
meet their business obligations;   
 

[PAGE 7]
Page 7 of 11 
 
(b) formulate  operational policies and procedures for implementing the RSRP;  
 
(c) develop  clear methodologies for evaluating  re-insurance arrangements of 
the IIOs, including but not limited to -  
 
(i) identification of tolerance to risk;  
(ii) identification of the segment -wise risk retenti on levels vis -à-vis 
tolerance to risk with appropriate re-insurance arrangements;  
(iii) selection of the panel of re-insurers used, including consideration of 
diversification and credit worthiness of the re-insurers;  
(iv) management of any known concentration risks with respect to a 
particular industry, geographical region, product type, and/or single 
insured in the insurer’s underwriting books;  
(v) involvement of re -insurance brokers  if any, including their role in 
structuring the re-insurance arrangements; 
(vi) the process for monitoring, reviewing and updating the RSRP;  
(vii) management of credit and liquidity risk;  
(viii) management of legal risk arising from the re-insurance contract;   
 
(d) develop robust internal control systems  to ensure that all business activities 
are carried out in compliance with the RSRP;  
 
(e) develop effective reporting systems to  satisfy the  requirements specified by 
the Board;  
 
(5) The RSRP shall be approved by the Board at least thirty days prior to 
commencement of accounting year;  
 
Provided that   in case of an IIO in an unincorporated form, its Parent Entity shall  
provide details of RSRP designed for the IIO.  
  
(6) The approved RSRP shall be submitted to the Authority, as and when directed by 
it. 
 
CHAPTER III 
 
5. Re-insurance contract and Risk Transfer - Any contract classified as a re -insurance 
contract shall have the following characteristics:–  
 
(1) It shall meet the risk transfer requirements for particular accounting year; 
 
(2) It protects the ceding insurer from negative financial impacts arising from the 
underlying insurance business ceded;  
Explanation:  

[PAGE 8]
Page 8 of 11 
 
 
(i) If the ART arrangement is in the nature of re-insurance, coupled with financing 
arrangement, and the components are capable of separation, each element should 
be accounted for as per the accounting standards  followed by the IIO;  
 
(ii) In cases where the aforesaid components are not separable, the entire ART 
arrangement should be treated as a financial transaction and should be accounted 
for accordingly.  All the IIOs are required to account for the ART arrangements 
by looking into the “Substance over Form”, and account for the same as per the 
accountings standards  followed by IIO.   
 
CHAPTER IV 
 
Re-insurance and Retrocession Requirements 
 
6. Retention Policy -  
 
(1) Every IIO shall formulate  a segment-wise retention policy  duly approved by its 
Board and shall maximise the retention commensurate with its financial strength 
and quality of risk while ensuring that the re -insurance arrangements are not 
fronting;  
 
(2) The Authority may require an IIO to justify its retention policy and may give such 
directions, as considered necessary;  
 
(3) Every IIOs shall comply with minimum retention requirements as may be specified 
by the Authority.   
 
7. Placement of re-insurance business:  
 
(1) Every IIO, before placing of re -insurance business (cession or retrocession) with 
the foreign insurers or foreign re-insurers, shall ensure that -  
 
(i) such foreign insurer or foreign re -insurer and its promoters, partners or 
controlling shareholders are not from the jurisdiction identified in the public 
statement of Financial Action Task Force as: 
 
(a) a jurisdiction having a strategic Anti -Money Laundering or Combating 
the Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter measures 
apply; or 
 
(b) a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the 
deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan developed with the 
Financial Action Task Force to address the deficiencies; 

[PAGE 9]
Page 9 of 11 
 
 
(ii) such foreign insurer or foreign re -insurer is duly a uthorised by its home 
country regulatory or supervisory authority to transact re-insurance business 
during the immediate past three continuous years; and 
 
(iii) the home country of such foreign insurer or foreign re -insurer has signed 
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) with India; 
 
 
CHAPTER V 
 
MISCELLANEOUS  
 
8. Reporting requirements : An IIO shall furnish information related to inward and 
outward re-insurance arrangements, as the case may be, to the Authority, in such manner, 
interval and in such form, as may be specified by the Authority.  
 
9. Power to specify procedure, etc.    
 
For the purpose of implementation of these regulations and matters incidental thereto, 
the Authority may specify norms, procedures, processes and manners for compliance by 
IIOs. 
 
10. Power to remove difficulties and relax strict enforcement of the regulations: 
 
(1) In order to  remove any difficulty in the application or interpretations of the 
provisions of these regulations, the Authority may issue clarifications through 
guidance notes or circulars. 
 
(2) On an application, received along with the specified non-refundable processing fees, 
the Authority, may for the reasons to be recorded in writing, relax the strict 
enforcement of any of the provisions of these regulations. 
 
11. Repeals and saving: 
 
(1)  On and from the commencement of these regulations, the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority (Re -insurance) Regulations, 2018 and guidelines or 
circulars issued thereunder shall cease to apply in International Financial Services 
Centres.  
 
(2)  Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (1), anything done or any 
action taken or p urported to have been done or taken under the regulations, 
guidelines or circulars mentioned in sub-regulation (1), before the commencement 

[PAGE 10]
Page 10 of 11 
 
of these regulations, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the 
corresponding provisions of these regulations.  
 
(3)  An IIO operating in an International Financial Services Centre prior to the 
commencement of these regulations, shall comply with the additional requirements 
specified in these regulations, if any, within a period of three months from the of 
commencement of these regulations or within such extended period as may be 
specified by the Authority. 
 
 
INJETI SRINIVAS, Chairperson 
[ADVT. xxx/x/Exty./xxx/2023] 
  

[PAGE 11]
Page 11 of 11 
 
Format for providing comments / suggestions. 
 
Proposed International Financial Services Centres Authority (Re-insurance) Regulations, 
2023 
 
 
Name, Designation of the person  
Contact No.   
Name of Organization  
Page No. of 
Draft Regu. Reg. No. Sub-Regu No.  
/Para No. 
Comments / Suggestions / 
Suggested modifications Rationale 
     
     
     
     
 
 