SOURCE: 022_IFSCA publications__Draft Payment Services Regulations 2023.pdf
PAGES: 48
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
 
1 
 
 
       Consultation paper on draft  
     IFSCA (Payment Services) Regulations, 2023 
 
Objective: 
1. The objective of this consultation paper is to seek 
comments/views/suggestions from the public on the proposed International 
Financial Services Authority (Payment Services) Regulations, 2023 (“the 
regulations”). 
Background: 
1. The International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) is the unified 
regulator for the development and regulation of financial products, financial 
services and financial institutions in the International Financial Service 
Centres (IFSC). Section 3(1)(d)(xi) of the IFSCA Act, 2019 (“the act”) lists 
“providing payment services” as a financial service under the act. 
2. IFSCA had issued the draft IFSCA (Payment Services) Regulations, 2023 on 
June 13, 2023 for seeking public comments. Based on the public comments 
received, the draft regulations have been substantially redrafted. Therefore, 
it has been decided to issue the updated draft for public comments.  
3. The updated regulations inter alia provide for: 
 
(i)  Clear specification of activities included under the definition of  
“payment  services” and those that are excluded from the definition 
of “payment services” 
 
(a) The regulations clearly specify the services that are included within 
the definition of payment services and those that are excluded from 
the definition.  
 
(b) The regulations also specify the entities providing one or more 
payment service/s which are exempted from the requirement of 
authorisation.  
(ii) Authorisation and associated requirements  
         Applicants will be able to provide all eligible payment services on the 
basis of a single authorisation. Applicants will be required to set up a 
Company with registered office in IFSC and satisfy the net worth 
requirement specified in the regulations before applying for an 
authorisation under these regulations. 

[PAGE 2]
 
2 
 
 
 
(iii)   Authorisation criteria 
 
      Criteria that shall be used by the Authority to evaluate the applications 
received by the Authority has been laid down in the regulations. 
 
(iv)   Revocation and surrender of authorisation 
 
Procedure for revocation of authorisation by the Authority and surrender of  
authorisation by the payment service provider has been clearly spelt out 
 
(v)   Governance arrangements  
           
Governance arrangements for the payment service providers including 
management of service relationships have been clearly laid down. 
 
4. The draft regulations are placed on the website of the IFSCA at 
https://ifsca.gov.in/PublicConsultation. General public and stakeholders are 
requested to forward their comments/suggestions through e-mail to Mr. Supriyo 
Bhattacharjee at supriyo.b@ifsca.gov.in and Mr. Vaibhav Sattavan at 
vaibhav.sattavan@ifsca.gov.in on or before November 10 , 2023  in the 
attached format. The comments may be provided in MS Word or MS Excel 
format only. 
 
 
  

[PAGE 3]
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Format for providing comments / suggestions 
 
IFSCA (Payment Services) Regulations, 2023 
 
Name, Designation of the person  
Contact No.  
Name of Organisation  
Page No. 
of Draft 
Regulation 
Reg. No. Sub-
Regulation 
No/Para 
No.  
Comments/Suggestions/ 
Suggested 
modifications 
Rationale 
  

[PAGE 4]
 
4 
 
 
DRAFT  
International Financial Services Centres Authority (Payment Services) Regulations, 2023 
 
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 12 read with sub-section 1 of 
section 28 of the International Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 2019 (50 of 2019), the 
International Financial Services Centres Authority hereby makes the following regulations  
namely: - 
 
Chapter I 
Preliminary 
Short title and commencement  
1. (1) These regulations may be called the International Financial Services Centres Authority 
(Payment Services) Regulations, 2023. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
Definitions  
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meanings as assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be 
construed accordingly -  
(a) “account issuance service” means any of the following services: 
i. the service of issuing a payment account to a payment service user; 
 
ii. any service relating to any operation required for operating a payment 
account, including:  
 
a) any service (other than a cross ‑border money transfer service) 
that enables money to be placed in a payment account; or 
 
b) any service (other than a cross ‑border money transfer service) 
that enables money to be withdrawn from a payment account; 
 
(b) “act” means the International Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 2019 (50 of 
2019); 
(c) “agent” means any person that carries on a business of acting as an authorised 
agent for another person, for the purposes of negotiating or concluding the sale or 
purchase of goods or services on behalf of that other person; 
(d) “applicable funds” means-  
i. funds received by the Payment Service Provider from, or for the benefit of, 
a payment service user for the execution of a payment transaction;  

[PAGE 5]
 
5 
 
ii. sums received from a Payment Service Provider for the execution of a 
payment transaction on behalf of a payment service user. 
 
(e) “authority” means the International Financial Services Centres Authority 
 established under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Act;  
(f) “branch” means a place of business, other than the head office; 
(g) “certificate of authorisation” means the certificate containing the details of the 
authorisation granted by the Authority to a Payment Service Provider under 
regulation 11; 
(h) “company” means a company as defined in  sub-section 20 of section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);    
(i)   “control” means control as defined in sub-section 27 of section 2 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) 
(j) “cross‑border money transfer service” means either of the following services: 
i. any service of accepting money from  a person in  IFSC, whether as 
principal or agent, for the purpose of transmitting, or arranging for the 
transmission of, the money to any person outside IFSC; 
ii. any service of receiving any money from a person outside IFSC for, or 
arranging for the receipt o f any money from a person outside IFSC by, 
any person in IFSC, whether as principal or as agent; 
 
(k) “digital payment token” means any digital representation of value (other than an 
excluded digital representation of value prescribed by the Authority) that — 
i. is expressed as a unit; 
ii. is not denominated in any currency, and is not pegged by its issuer to 
any currency; 
iii. is, or is intended to be, a medium of exchange accepted by the public, 
or a section of the public, as payment for goods or services  or for the 
discharge of a debt; 
iv. can be transferred, stored or traded electronically; and 
v. satisfies such other characteristics as the Authority may prescribe; 
 
 (l) “e‑money” means any electronically stored monetary value that — 
i. is denominated in any specified foreign currency; 
ii. has been paid for in advance to enable the making of payment 
transactions through the use of a payment account; 
iii. is accepted by a person other than its issuer; and 
iv. represents a claim on its issuer 
 but does not include any deposit accepted in or outside IFSC, from any person in 
or outside IFSC, and does not include a digital payment token (DPT);  
(m) “e-money issuance service” means the service of issuing e -money to a Payment 
Service User for the purpose of allowing a Payment Service User to make payment 
transactions; 

[PAGE 6]
 
6 
 
(n) “escrow service” means the service provided by a Payment Service Provider under 
an agreement, whereby an asset or money is held by such Payment Service 
Provider in an escrow account on behalf of two parties that are in the process of 
completing a transaction. 
(o) “holding company”, means a company as defined in sub-section 46 of section 2 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);  
(p) “International Financial Services Centre” shall have the meaning assigned to it in 
clause (g) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act;  
(q) “key managerial personnel” shall have the meaning assigned to it in subsection 50 
of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (as amended) and any other person whom 
the Payment Service Provider may declare as a key managerial personnel; 
(r) “merchant acquisition service” means any service of accepting and processing a 
payment transaction for a merchant under a contract between the Payment 
Service Provider and the merchant, which results in a transfer of money to the 
merchant pursuant to the payment transaction, regardless of whether the Payment 
Service Provider comes into possession of any money in respect of th e payment 
transaction; 
(s) “ nth-party service provider ” means a service provider that is part of a  Service 
Provider’s supply chain and supports the ultimate delivery of services to one or 
more Payment Service Providers; 
(t) “payment account” means an account held with a Payment Service Provider in the 
name of one or more Payment Service Users which is used for the execution of 
payment transactions; 
(u) “payment instrument” means any personalised device or set of procedures through 
which a Payment Services User initiates a payment order;   
(v) “payment order” means any instruction by a Payment Service User to the Payment 
Service Provider requesting the execution of a payment transaction; 
(w) “payment services” means any of the activities or services that is specified in Part 
A of Schedule 1 of these regulations when carried out as a regular business activity 
but does not include activities/services specified in Part B of Schedule I of these 
regulations; 
(x) “payment service provider” means any person th at provides one or more of the 
Payment Services listed in Part A of Schedule 1 as a regular business activity and 
who has been duly authorised by the Authority as a Regular Payment Service 
Provider or a Significant Payment Service Provider to provide such Payment 
Services; 
(y) “payment service user” means any person, in IFSC or outside IFSC, that m akes 
use of a Payment Service provided by a Payment Service Provider in the capacity 
of a payer or a payee, or of both; 
(z) “payment system” shall have the meaning assigned  to it in clause (i) of sub-section 
(1) of section 2 of Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007  (51 of 2007) (as 
amended). 

[PAGE 7]
 
7 
 
(aa) “payment transaction” means an act initiated by the payer or payee, or on behalf 
of the payer, of placing, transferring or withdrawing fu nds, with or without any 
underlying obligations between the payer and payee; 
(ab) “principal executive ” means a n employee designated by a Payment Service 
Provider who is responsible for the overall activities of the Payment Service 
Provider in the IFSC; 
(ac) “regular payment service provider” means any Payment Service Provider , 
authorised under regulation 1 1 of these regulations , other than “significant 
payment service provider”   
(ad)  “safeguarding institution” means an IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) or an IFSC Banking 
Company (IBC) as defined in clause (ec) and (eb), respectively, of sub-regulation 
(1) of regulation 2 of the International Financial Services Centres Act (Banking) 
Regulations, 2020;  
(ae) “service provider” mean s any person that provides services to one or more 
Payment Service Provider either directly or indirectly (e.g., as part of the supply 
chain of another service provider); 
(af) “significant payment service provider” means any Payment Service Provider, who 
is authorised under regulation 11 of these regulations and satisfies the conditions 
mentioned in Part C of Schedule I of these regulations; 
(ag) “specified foreign currency” means the currencies specified in the First Schedule 
of the International Financial Services Centres Authority (Banking) Regulations, 
2020;  
(ah) “subsidiary” means a company as defined in sub-section 87of section 2  of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013); 
(ai) “service relationship” means a formal arrangement for the provision of one or more 
services, or parts thereof, in the form of activities, functions, processes and tasks, 
to a Payment Service Provider by a service provider including: 
a)  arrangements for the provision of services to a Payment Service Provider 
by an intra-group service provider; 
 
b) services supporting transactions between a Payment Service Provider with 
their employees, customers or counterparties (e.g., compliance or back -
office functions).  
 
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act 
or Acts mentioned in the First Schedule to the Act, or the Companies Act, 2013, or any rules 
or regulations made thereunder shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them 
in those Acts, rules or regulations or any statutory modification or re -enactment thereto, as 
the case may be. 
 
 
 

[PAGE 8]
 
8 
 
Chapter II 
Authorisation to Payment Service Providers 
Requirement of authorisation for commencing or carrying on a Payment Service 
3. Any person seeking to provide Payment Services in or from International Financial Services 
Centre (‘IFSC’) shall require authorisation from the Authority under these regulations.  
Application for authorisation for providing Payment Services  
4. (1) Any person desirous of providing Payment Services in or from an International Financial 
Services Centre (hereinafter referred to as 'A pplicant') shall submit an application to the 
Authority, for grant of authorisation  as a Payment Service Provider in the format specified in 
Schedule II of these regulations;  
          Provided that the persons specified in Schedule V of these regulations are exempted from 
the requirement of obtaining authorisation under these regulations. 
    (2) The a pplication under sub -regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non -refundable 
application fee as may be specified by the Authority and paid in such manner as may be 
specified by the Authority. 
   (3)  A person authorised as a Payment Service Provider may provide one or more of Payment 
Services as specified in Part A of the Schedule I to these regulations.  
   (4)  Notwithstanding sub-regulation (3), a person must have in force an authorisation for SPSP 
if in addition to satisfying the condition of sub-regulation (3), he satisfies one or more conditions 
in Part C of Schedule I to these regulations.   
Activities that are not Payment Services  
5. Activities listed in Part B of Schedule I shall not be considered as Payment Services for the 
purpose of these regulations.  
Legal form of the applicant  
6. An applicant for authorisation under regulation 4 shall be required to be incorporated as a 
company with its registered office in IFSC  before submitting the application to the Authority 
under these regulations. 
Net worth requirement 
 7. (1) A Payment Service Provider shall comply with the net worth requirements, as specified 
in Schedule VI of these regulations, on an ongoing basis.  
     (2) The net worth requirements of an applicant  or a Payment Service Provider  shall be 
reviewed by the Authority from time to time. 
     (3) Requirement of additional net worth, if any, as a result of the review undertaken under 
sub-regulation (2), will have to be satisfied: 
 (a)  by an applicant, at the time of application or, if the application has already been 
submitted, before the grant of authorisation.  
 (b)  by a Payment Service Provider, within 180 days from the date of communication by 
the Authority about the additional net worth requirement.  

[PAGE 9]
 
9 
 
Fit and Proper requirement  
8. (1) An Applicant or a Payment Service Provider  shall ensure that its Principal Executive, 
directors, Key Managerial P ersonnel and persons exercising control over the Applicant or a 
Payment Service Provider (hereinafter referred to as “Relevant P ersons”) satisfy the “fit and 
proper requirements” (FPR) specified in Schedule III of these regulations at all times. 
      (2) The Authority may undertake an evaluation of any Relevant P erson/s under the FPR 
criteria during the time of processing the request for authorisation as a Payment Service 
Provider or any time thereafter.  
      (3)  In case of any difference in the outcome of the evaluation under the FPR undertaken by 
an Applicant or a Payment Service Provider and that undertaken by the Authority, the outcome 
of the evaluation undertaken by the Authority shall prevail. 
Authorisation requirements  
9. While evaluating an application u nder sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 , the Authority shall 
take into account all matters which it deems relevant for grant of authorisation , including, 
whether: 
a. Principal Executive , directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Applicant or its 
associated company have adequate experience, including an existing authorisation 
to provide similar services in any other jurisdiction, in the activities that it seeks to 
provide as a Payment Service Provider; 
 
b. the A pplicant possesses the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, 
equipment, communication facilities and manpower to effectively discharge its 
activities; 
 
c. the Applicant satisfies the net worth requirement as specified in these regulations; 
 
d. the financial soundness of the Applicant; 
 
e. the Applicant and its Principal Executive, directors, Key Managerial P ersonnel and 
persons exercising control over the applicant satisfy the “fit and proper” requirements; 
 
f. the Applicant, its group entities or any of its associates have in the past been refused 
certificate by the Authority and if so, the ground for such refusal;  
 
g. the A pplicant or its Principal Executive , d irectors, Key Managerial Personnel i s 
subject to any proceeding for breach of law by the Authority; and 
 
h. the interests of Payment Services Users, including the terms and conditions 
governing their relationship with a Payment Service Provider. 
Issuance of in-principle approval  
10. (1) After considering an application for authorisation, if the Authority is satisfied that the said 
application, prima facie, satisfies the conditions for granting authorisation, the Authority shall 
issue an “in-principle approval” letter to the Applicant and may r equire the Applicant to satisfy 
such conditions as may be specified by the Authority in the “in-principle approval” letter. 

[PAGE 10]
 
10 
 
     (2)  Grant of authorisation to an Applicant who has been issued “in-principle approval” shall 
be at the sole discretion of the Authority and the issue of “in-principle approval” by the Authority 
shall not automatically entitle the Applicant to be granted an authorisation under regulation 11. 
     (3) The Applicant shall intimate to the Authority about any change of ownership or control of 
the Applicant during the period when an “in-principle approval” is in force.  
     (4)  The Authority , after receipt of intimation under sub-regulation (3) or when it otherwise 
becomes aware of any change of control of the applicant to whom an “in-principle approval” has 
been issued , shall undertake a review of its decision to grant “in-principle approval ” to the 
applicant.  
    (5)  The outcome of the review undertaken at sub-regulation (4) shall be communicated to 
the applicant.  
    (6)  If as a result of the review under sub-regulation (4), the Authority proposes to revoke the 
“in-principle approval” granted to the applicant, the Authority shall communicate its desire to do 
so to the Applicant and provide the Applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard before 
taking a final decision in the matter.  
Grant of authorisation  
11. (1) The Authority may, on being satisfied that the Applicant has complied with the conditions 
laid down in these regulations and is eligible to act as a R egular Payment Service Provider or 
Standard Payment Service Provider, grant Certificate of Authorisation to the Applicant subject 
to the conditions as the Authority may deem fit.  
      (2) The Certificate of Authorisation granted under sub -regulation (1) shall be valid till the 
same is revoked by the Authority or surrendered by the Payment Service Provider. 
      (3) Every S ignificant Payment Service Provider  shall maintain security deposit of a 
prescribed amount (or its equivalent in a specified foreign currency) with the Authority, for the 
due performance of its  obligation to every Payment Service User who is a cus tomer of the 
Significant Payment Service Provider. 
       (4) The prescribed amount of security deposit (or its equivalent in specified foreign 
currency) shall be as follows:  
i. $100000 – where the total value of all payment transactions per month is less than 
or equal to $6 million 
 
ii. $200000 – where the total value of all payment transactions per month is more 
than $6 million 
(5) The security deposit mentioned in sub-regulation (3) shall be — 
     (a) in the form of a bank guarantee that satisfies such requirements as the Authority 
may specify by notice in writing; or 
        (b) in such other form as the Authority may, in any particular case, allow. 
         (6) The Payment Service Provider shall, at any time after the grant of authorisation under 
sub-regulation (1), intimate to the Authority of any material change  in the information or 
particulars previously furnished along with the application. 

[PAGE 11]
 
11 
 
Refusal of Authorisation: - 
12. ( 1) If the Authority is of the opinion that the authorisation cannot be granted, it shall 
communicate the deficiencies to the Applicant giving it thirty (30) days time to rectify them. 
       (2) If the Applicant fails to re ctify such deficiencies within the specified time, the  Authority 
shall refuse to grant authorisation and shall communicate the same to the Applicant, giving 
reasons for such refusal.  
Provided that no such refusal shall be made without giving the Applicant a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard.  
       (3) The application filed under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 may be withdrawn by the 
Applicant at any time before the grant of authorisation without refund of fees paid, if any, to the 
Authority.  
       (4) The Applicant whose application is refused under sub-regulation (2) or withdrawn under 
sub-regulation (3) may submit a fresh application for authorisation after a period of six months 
from the date of  communication of  refusal of the application by the Authority  under sub -
regulation (2). 
 
Revocation of authorisation  
13. (1)  If the Authority is satisfied that a Payment Service Provider has failed to comply with any 
of the conditions of the authorisation, provision/s of these regulations, orders or directions of the 
Authority, violation of fit and proper criteria or that the activity of the Payment Service Provider 
is being carried on in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the Payment Service Users, it may 
revoke the authorisation granted to such Payment Service Provider and cancel the Certificate 
of Authorisation .  
      (2)  The order for revocation of the  authorisation and cancellation of the  Certificate of 
Authorisation shall be issued after giving the  concerned Payment Service Provider, a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
Surrender of Authorisation 
 14. (1) A Payment Service Provider  may file an application with the Authority, in compliance 
with the conditions and in the format provided in Schedule IV, for surrender of its the 
authorisation granted to it.  
       (2)  On perusal of the application and on being satisfied that the surrender of authorisation 
is unlikely to cause any material adverse effect to the financial ecosystem of the IFSC or the 
interests of the Payment Service Users, the Authority may  permit surrender of such 
authorisation subject to such conditions as it may think fit. 
       (3) The Authority may, by an order in writing, specify the date from which the authorisation 
shall cease to have effect. 
 Application of security deposit on revocation or surrender of authorisation  
 15. (1) Where a Significant Payment Service Provider has surrendered its authorisation or the 
authorisation of a Significant Payment Service Provider has been revoked by the Authority, the 
Authority may apply the security depos it, if any, mentioned in sub-regulation (3) of regulation 

[PAGE 12]
 
12 
 
11, to pay any sums outstanding and claimed by Payment Service Users who are customers of 
the Significant Payment Service Provider. 
       (2) Where a Significant Payment Service Provider has surrendered its authorisation or the 
authorisation of a Significant Payment Service Provider has been revoked by the Authority, the 
Authority shall release the security deposit, if any, mentioned in sub-regulation (3) of regulation 
11 or any balance thereof if it is satisfied that:  
(a) there is no outstanding claim by any Payment Service User who is a customer of the 
Significant Payment Service Provider; and  
(b) the Significant Payment Service Provider has satisfied all conditions for surrender of 
authorisation under these regulations.  
   
Chapter III 
Commencement of operations  
 16. (1) The Payment Service Provider shall commence its operations within six months from 
the date of issue of Certificate of Authorisation.  
       (2) The Payment Service Provider  shall submit any request for extension of time for 
commencing operations at least 3 months before the date of commencement of operations in 
sub-regulation (1). 
 (3) The application under sub-regulation (2) shall include complete details of the reasons 
behind the request for extension, duration of extension sought, steps being undertaken to 
overcome the delay and any other information which, in the opinion of the Payment Service 
Provider, is relevant to the request for extension.  
       (4)  The Authority shall consider a request under sub-regulation (2), either accept or refuse 
the same and communicate its decision to the Payment Service Provider.  
 
Chapter IV 
Governance 
Governance arrangements  
17. (1) A Payment Service Provider  shall document its governance arrangements i.e., the 
framework under which its Board and Management of such operates, comprehensively and 
clearly. 
       (2) The governance arrangements to be documented in sub -regulation (1) should, at 
minimum, include the following components namely:  
a. role and composition of the Board and any board committees; 
b. senior management structure; 
c. reporting lines between management and the board; 
d. ownership structure;  
e. internal governance policy; 
f. design of risk management and internal controls;  

[PAGE 13]
 
13 
 
g. procedures for the appointment of board members and senior management; 
h. processes for ensuring performance accountability; 
(3) A Payment Service Provider shall not undertake activities other than providing Payment 
Services without the prior permission of the Authority and subject to such conditions as may be 
specified by the Authority  
(4) A Payment Service Provider  shall devise clear and comprehensive rule s and 
procedures for the Payment Services provided by it and shall  provide sufficient information to 
enable Payment Service Users to have an accurate understanding of the risks, fees, and other 
material costs they incur by availing such Payment Service/s.         
18.  (1)  A Payment Service Provider  shall develop a framework for management of risks  
including risk -management policies, procedures, and systems that enable it to identify, 
measure, monitor, and manage the range of risks that arise in or are borne by it while providing 
payment service/s. Such r isk-management frameworks shall  be subject to periodic review by 
the Board of the Payment Service Provider. 
(2) A Payment Service Provider  shall establish a robust operational risk -management 
framework with appropriate systems, policies, procedures, and controls to identify, monitor, and 
manage operational risks. 
(3)  A Payment Service Provider that establishes a link with one or more Payment Systems 
shall identify, monitor, and manage link-related risks. 
 
Chapter V 
Risk management of service relationships 
Identification of critical services and assessment of criticality  
19.  (1)  A Payment Service Provider shall put in place a risk -based framework to assess the 
criticality of services that they receive or plan to receive  from a Service P rovider. Such 
assessment shall be undertaken at the time of commencement of operations and at regular 
intervals thereafter.  
        (2)  The framework in sub-regulation (1) shall  consider various factors relevant to 
identifying a service as “critical” including: 
a. the financial, operational and strategic importance of the service to the Payment 
Service Provider. 
b. the level of tolerance for disruption acceptable to the Payment Service Provider 
regarding critical business operations that rely or plan to rely on the Service 
Provider. 
c. the nature of any data or information shared by the Payment Service Provider with 
the Service Provider under a Service Relationship. 
d. the ease of substitutability of a service or lack thereof.  
Onboarding and ongoing monitoring of Service Providers 
20.   (1) A Payment Service Provider  shall conduct appropriate planning and due diligence 
before entering into a Service Relationship arrangement for a critical service. The level of due 

[PAGE 14]
 
14 
 
diligence shall be proportional to the criticality of the relevant service as required to be identified 
in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 19.  
         (2) Factors that are to be considered in the due diligence process may include:  
a. Operational and technical capability and track record, including (if applicable) 
drawing on any prior engagement between the Payment Service Provider and the 
Service Provider (in general or in connection with the service to be provided); 
 
b. Financial soundness insofar as it can affect the delivery of its services; 
 
c. Internal controls and risk management, including its a bility to manage ICT, cyber 
security and other operational risks; 
 
d. Management of supply chain risks, including use and oversight of nth-party service 
providers; 
 
e. Geographic dependencies and management of related risks; 
 
f. Key personnel involved in the delivery of the relevant service and their 
competency; 
 
g. Potential conflicts of interest; 
 
h. Existence of any recent or pending relevant complaints, investigations or litigation 
against the Service Provider and (if relevant) nth-party service provider; 
 
i. Ability to deliver the critical service in a way that allows the financial institution to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations; 
 
j. Ability to support the financial institution’s business strategy and plans; 
 
k. Level of substitutability of the service and Service Provider. 
         (3) The services being received by a Payment Service Provider shall be procured through 
legally binding arrangements between the  Payment Service Provider and a Service Provider, 
including clear contractual provisions setti ng out the respective rights and obligations of a 
Payment Service Provider and a Service Provider. 
         (4) The legal arrangements in sub -regulation (3) must  include a provision of sharing of 
information by the service provider with the Authority.  
         (5) A Payment Service Provider  shall establish processes for ongoing monitoring of the 
Service Provider’s ability to deliver the critical services in line with its contractual obligations.  
Exit strategies  
21.  (1) A Payment Service Provider  shall identify, document and to the extent practically 
feasible, test their strategy for exiting Service Relationship involving critical services. 
        (2)  Such strategy shall cover a range of scenarios including planned migration of services 
but also include adverse events like:  
 (a) Significant or persistent breach of applicable laws, regulations or contractual terms; 

[PAGE 15]
 
15 
 
           (b) Deterioration in the quality of the services provided; 
 (c) Weaknesses in the Service Provider’s governance, financial condition, resilience or 
risk management that have impacted or could reasonably impact the delivery of critical services; 
 (d) Extended disruption to critical services that cannot be managed through other 
business continuity measures. 
Reporting of incidents  
22.  The Payment Service Provider shall require the Service Providers to have clearly defined 
processes for identifying, investigating, remediating and notifying Payment Service Provider in 
a timely manner of incidents that impact the Service Provider’s ability to deliver agreed -upon 
services. 
Record of third-party service relationships  
23.  The Payment Service Provider shall maintain complete, up-to-date records of their Service 
Relationship that identify the criticality of different services. 
Chapter VI 
Duties of the Payment Service Provider 
Duty to protect Applicable Funds:  
24. (1) It shall be the duty of the Payment Service Provider to safeguard Applicable F unds by 
following the directions specified in Schedule VII.  
      (2) The Payment Service Provider must , at all times, keep Applicable F unds segregated 
from any other types of funds that it holds.  
Duty to comply with Know Your Customer/ Anti Money Laundering / Combating the 
Financing of Terrorism Guidelines 
25.  (1) The Payment Service Provider  shall ensure compliance with International Financial 
Services Centres Authority (Anti Money Laundering, Counter -Terrorist Financing and Know 
Your Customer) Guidelines, 2022, and other provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 
2002 and the Rules made thereunder including any st atutory modification(s) or re -enactment 
thereof for the time being in force. 
        (2) The Payment Service Provider using agents for the provision of their services shall : 
a) maintain an up-to-date list of such agents 
 
b) include  such agents in their AML/CFT  programmes and monitor them for 
compliance with these programmes 
 
        (3) A Payment Service Provider shall be responsible and accountable for the 
transactions/actions undertaken by their authorised agents, retail outlets and merchants. 
 
 
 

[PAGE 16]
 
16 
 
Duty to comply with laws  
26. The Payment Service Provider  shall comply with all applicable laws in India as well all 
applicable laws of any jurisdictions outside India where it provides services or where the 
Payment Service Users are based.  
Duty of co-operation with the Authority  
27. A Payment Service Provider  must deal with the Authority in an open and co ‑operative 
manner. A Payment Service Provider shall keep the Authority duly informed of any significant 
event(s) relating to the Payment Service Provider.  
Duty towards Payment Service Users 
28.   A Payment Service Provider shall ensure that due regard is given to protecting the interests 
of Payment Service Users and the relevant information is communicated to them in a clear and 
fair manner that minimises the possibility of them getting misled. 
Redressal of grievances 
29. (1) A Payment Service Provider shall put in place a framework for redressal of grievances 
of the Payment Service Users.  
      (2) A Payment Service Provider shall maintain records regarding grievances received by it 
and redressal of such grievances. 
      (3) A Payment Service Provider must depute adequate staff at its permanent place of 
business or registered office in IFSC to address any queries or complaints from any payment 
service user that uses any payment service.  
 
Chapter VII 
Place of business or registered office: -  
30. (1) A Payment Service Provider who wants to carry on some activities of a payment service 
from a place of business other than from IFSC shall seek prior approval from the Authority. 
      (2) The Authority may permit a Payment Service Provider to offer payment service from a 
place of business other than IFSC, subject to such conditions as the Authority may think fit.  
 
.Chapter VIII 
Returns, Documents and Other Information 
Submission of returns, documents or other information etc. 
31. (1) Every Payment Service Provider s hall be required to submit  information in the format 
and the manner as specified by the Authority.  
       
Furnishing of accounts and Balance Sheet  
32. Every Payment Services Provider shall submit to the Authority, a copy of the audited 
financial statements, which includes Balance-sheet, Profit and Loss statement, Cash/Fund flow 

[PAGE 17]
 
17 
 
statement along -with the audito r’s report thereon within three months from the date of its 
finalisation to the Authority, along with the remarks or observations of the auditor, if any, on the 
conduct of the business, state of accounts, etc., and a suitable explanation on auditor’s 
observations/remarks. 
Provided that the Authority may, on an application made by the Payment Services Provider, 
extend the said period of three months for furnishing of returns by a further period not exceeding 
one month. 
Maintenance of books of accounts, records and other documents 
33. Every Payment Service Provider  shall maintain and preserve the following books of 
accounts, records and documents, in a format suitable for electronic retrieval, for a minimum of 
ten years from the date of commencement of operations, namely: -  
(a) a copy of the balance sheet at the end of each accounting period; 
(b) a copy of profit and loss account for each accounting period;  
(c) a copy of the auditor’s report on the accounts for each accounting period; 
(d) a statement of net worth for each quarter;  
(e) documentation relating to compliance with AML and CFT guidelines; 
(f) documents relating to account opening of each client and any power of attorney or 
signature authority forms of the clients; 
(g) relevant records and documents relating to its activities in capital markets;  
(h) such other books of accounts, records and documents as may be specified by the 
Authority from time to time. 
 
  

[PAGE 18]
 
18 
 
 
 
Schedule I 
Payment Services, Thresholds and Conditions 
[See Section 12 of the Act and regulation 4(4) and 4(5)] 
Part A 
Activities which are Payment Services 
1. The following activities, except the activities specified in Part B, are Payment Services for 
the purposes of these regulations : 
 
a) account issuance service (including e-money account issuance service); 
 
b) e-money issuance service;  
 
c) escrow service;  
 
d) cross border money transfer service; 
 
e) merchant acquisition service. 
 
Part B 
Activities which are not Payment Services 
2. The following activities are not Payment Services for the purposes of these regulations – 
 
a) payment transactions on behalf of the payer or the payee, if performed by an agent 
authorised to negotiate or conclude the sale or purchase of goods or services on 
behalf of the payer or the payee, as the case may be; 
 
b) payment transactions based on any of the following documents, each being a 
document drawn on a person with a view to placing money at the disposal of the 
payee; 
 
(i) cheque, cashier’s order, drawing voucher, dividend warrant, demand draft, 
remittance receipt, traveller’s cheque or gift cheque; 
 
(ii) paper postal order; 
 
c) payment transactions carried out within a payment or securities settlement system 
between payment service providers and settlement agents, central counterparties, 
clearing houses, central banks or other participants in the system; 
 
d) payment transactions related to securities asset servicing, including dividends, 
income or other distributions, or redemption or sale, carried out by persons referred 
to in sub-paragraph (c); 
 

[PAGE 19]
 
19 
 
e) payment transactions carried out between payment service providers, or their agents 
or branches, for their own account; 
 
f) payment transactions and related services between a holding company and its 
subsidiary or between subsidiaries of the same holding company, without any  
intermediary intervention by a payment service provider other than a company 
belonging to the same group; 
 
g) transporting currency, including the collection, processing and delivery of the 
currency, where the service is carried on as a business; 
 
h) services provided by technical service providers, being an entity that supports the 
provision of payment services, without being in possession of the funds to be 
transferred at any time, including the services of: 
 
(i) processing and storage of data; 
 
(ii) trust and privacy protection services; 
 
(iii) data and entity authentication; 
 
(iv) information technology; 
 
(v) communication network provision; and 
 
(vi) provision and maintenance of terminals and devices used for payment 
services; 
 
i) services based on specific payment instruments that can be used only in a limited 
way and meet one of the following conditions: 
 
(i) allow the holder to acquire goods or services only in the  premises of the issuer 
of the payment instrument; 
 
(ii) are issued by an issuer and allow the holder to acquire goods or services only 
within a limited network of service providers which have direct commercial 
agreements with the user; 
 
(iii) may be used only to acquire a very limited range of goods or services; 
 
Part C 
Thresholds and Conditions required for Authorisation as a Significant Payment Service 
Provider 
3. The following are the thresholds and conditions to be met by an applicant or a Regular 
Payment Service Provider to be eligible for authorisation as a Significant Payment 
Service Provider –  
 

[PAGE 20]
 
20 
 
a) if the applicant or the Regular Payment Service Provider intends to carry or carries 
on a business of providing one or more of the payment services (other than e-
money account issuance service) mentioned in Part A of this schedule: 
 
(i) the monthly average, over a calendar year, of the total value of all payment 
transactions that are accepted, processed, executed or intended to be 
accepted, processed, executed exceeds – 
 
A) $2 million (or its equivalent in a specified foreign currency), for any one 
of the payment services (other than e-money account issuance service) 
mentioned in Part A of this schedule or; 
 
B) $4 million (or its equivalent in a specified foreign currency), for two or 
more of the payment services (other than e-money account issuance 
service) mentioned in Part A of this schedule;  
 
b) if the applicant or the Regular Payment Service Provider intends to carry or carries 
on a business of providing an e-money account issuance service: 
 
(i) the average daily value, over a calen dar year, of all e -money that is stored in 
any payment account intended to be issued or issued by the applicant or the 
Regular Payment Service Provider  exceeds $3 million (or its equivalent in a 
specified foreign currency); 
 
c) if the applicant or the Regular Payment Service Provider intends to carry or carries 
on a business of providing an e-money issuance service: 
 
(i) the average daily value, over a calendar year, of the total value in one day of all 
e-money that is intended to be issued or issued by the applicant or the Regular 
Payment Service Provider  exceeds $3 million (or its equivalent in a specified 
foreign currency); 
  

[PAGE 21]
 
21 
 
 
 
Schedule II 
Application form  
[See Section 12 of the Act and regulation 4(1)] 
 
Section A :General Information to be filled by applicants  
S. 
No.  
Particulars 
 
Comments / 
Remarks 
 (for IFSCA 
use) 
1. IFSCA Regulations/Framework/Circulars under 
which Application is being made by the Applicant  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Name of the Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Legal form of the Applicant along with Registration/ 
Identification No. and documentary proof.  
 
For example, in case of a company provide the 
Certificate of Incorporation, Memorandum of 
Association and Articles of Association.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
4. Date of incorporation of the Applicant  
 
 
 
 
5. Name and Address of Head/ Corporate Office of the 
Applicant’s Parent Entity(ies) (also provide FAX no(if 
available), Email ID and Website) 
 
  
Address of Registered Office of the Applicant’s 
Parent Entity(ies) (also provide FAX no(if available), 
Email ID and Website) 
 
  
Address of principal place of Business of the 
Applicant’s Parent Entity(ies) (also provide FAX no(if 
available), Email ID and Website) 
 
  

[PAGE 22]
 
22 
 
6.  Provisional address of the Applicant’s proposed 
IFSC Unit. Attach copy of Provisional Letter of 
Allotment. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Details of Person Authorised with respect to this 
application (Name, Designation, Email, Phone, 
Address) 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  i) If Applicant’s parent entity(ies ) is regulated by 
Financial Sector Regulator(s) provide the following 
details:  
Name of Regulator, Name of Country, Type of 
Activity, License/ Registration No., Date of 
Registration and Validity & No Objection Certificate 
(NOC) from home country regulator, if required as 
per IFSCA regulations.  
 
 ii) If any of the Applicant’s group 1 entities are 
regulated by Financial Sector Regulator(s) provide 
the following details:  
Name of Regulator, Name of Country, Type of 
Activity, License/ Registration No., Date of 
Registration and Validity 
 
1for the purpose of this question, the term group shall 
include: JV’s/ Subsidiaries / Associates / Promoter / 
Body Corporate operating under common brand 
name 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  Whether Applicant’s Parent Entity , including all 
promoters/controlling shareholders/ senior 
management/ founders are from a country identified 
in the  latest public statement of Financial Action 
Task Force as: 
a) High-risk jurisdiction subject to a call for 
Action; or (Yes/No) 
b) a Jurisdiction under Increased 
Monitoring.   (Yes/No) 
 
If yes to any of the above, provide further details. 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 23]
 
23 
 
10. Whether Applicant’s group 2 entities, having 
transactions/ commercial engagements with 
applicant entity are from a country identified in the 
latest public statement of Financial  Action Task 
Force as: 
 
a) a High-risk jurisdiction subject to a call for 
action; or (Yes/No) 
b)a Jurisdiction under Increased 
monitoring. (Yes/No) 
  
If Yes to any of the above, provide further details. 
 
2for the purpose of this question, the term group shall 
include JVs/ Subsidiaries / Associates / Promoter / 
Body Corporate operating under common brand 
name 
 
 
 
Section B: Corporate Information 
 
11. Copy of the Resolution passed by the Applicant authorizing its 
Director(s)/Partner(s)/ Authorized Person(s) as applicable, for enabling the 
Applicant to: 
• make an application to IFSCA, and thereby executing, or providing 
necessary documents on behalf of the Applicant to IFSCA. 
• to incorporate/ setup unit in IFSC 
• in case applicant wants to pursue business activities different from 
the ones for which the applicant is licensed (if applicable) 
 
Attach copy/copies  
 
 
 
 
 
12. Provide details of ‘Information on Management’ as per given format in 
Section F. 
 
 
 
 
 
13. Shareholding pattern / List of major shareholders 3 (for all holding 10% or 
more of shares or voting rights or distributable dividend) / Persons exercising 
Control4 of Applicant. 
a) Authorised Capital: 
b) Paid up Capital / Partners Capital contribution: 
c) Subscribed Capital and Issued Capital: 
d) Face value of shares: 
e) Details of the Shareholding or partnership structure as below: 
 
 

[PAGE 24]
 
24 
 
Instrument Name 
of the 
Shareh
older or 
Investo
r 
Nationality 
of  
Individual 
shareholder
s/ Country of 
Registration 
for 
Institutional 
Investors 
Amount 
Investe
d  
(incl. 
Curren
cy) 
% 
Direct 
Holding 
in 
Applica
nt entity  
(as 
on____
_) 
% Indirect Holding 
in Applicant entity  
(as on_____) 
Equity 
Shares/ 
Capital 
Contributio
n 
     
Others 
(Preferenc
e 
/Convertibl
e etc.) 
     
TOTAL    
      
 
3The intent of this question is to identify the Ultimate Beneficial Owner (UBO) 
of the Applicant. In case the shareholding is not held directly by the 
shareholder mentioned in table above in Q12, provide ownership structure 
chart of the applicant clearly bringing out the vertical group stru cture and 
ownership percentages at all levels. 
 
4Control shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control 
the management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons 
acting individually or in concert, directly or indirec tly, including by virtue of 
their shareholding or management rights or shareholders’ agreements or 
voting agreements or in any other manner. 
 
 
 
 
 
14. In respect of the shareholders disclosed in Q12 above: 
 
If the direct shareholder is a Natural person then: provide Net Worth 
Certificate5 along with the last three years Personal Tax Returns. 
 
If the shareholder is a body -corporate then: provide audited financial 
statements (Balance sheet, P&L and Cash flow statement) for the last three 
years. 
 
5Net worth Certificate should not be older than six months as on the date of 
application (As certified by CA/CS or their equivalent in foreign jurisdiction). 
(Mention figures in space provided and Attach copy) 
 
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 25]
 
25 
 
14A
. 
Please provide the Net Worth Certificate6 of the Applicant.   
 
Enter the figures in the space provided and upload the document.  
 
6Net worth Certificate should not be older than six months as on the date of 
application (As certified by CA/CS or their equivalent in foreign jurisdiction).  
 
 
 
  
 
 
Section C: Information on Business Plan for the IFSC Unit 
S.No. Particulars Comments/ 
Remarks (for 
IFSCA use) 
15.  Briefly describe the Applicant (including existing activities 
carried out, revenue from these activities, key client 
jurisdictions, no. of employees etc.). Also, provide group's 
experience in providing regulated financial services in 
India or any other jurisdictions. 
 
  
15.A Provide the Applicant’s Business Plan, highlighting their 
proposed business activities to be carried out in IFSC as 
per relevant regulations/framework. 
 
  
16. Has the Applicant previously submitted an application 
form or a regulatory business plan to any other financial 
services authority to carry out regulated activities? 
 
If "yes," when was the most recent submission made, and 
to which regulator? 
 
If the answer is "yes," what happened with that 
submission? 
 
  
17. Describe the procedures and measures that will be taken 
to ensure that the client's assets and/or funds are 
adequately protected. 
 
  
18. Provide answers to the following: 
i) Immediate and Future markets being targeted 
ii) Types of clients (whether institutional/ retail/ 
any other) 
iii) Projected number of clients at the end of Year-
1 
 
Describe the Applicant's prior experience serving retail 
clients (if applicable), including that of its Senior 
Management. Briefly explain measures in place, in terms 
 

[PAGE 26]
 
26 
 
of client agreements , marketing materia ls, etc. to 
safeguard retail clients.  
 
  
Organisation structure and corporate governance 
 
19.  Describe any intra-Group business ties and transactions 
(such as guarantees, loans, cash flows, or services) 
 
  
20. Briefly describe the scope of interactions of IFSC Unit 
with other regulators/supervisors, if any.  
 
  
21. Describe the detailed organizational structure of the IFSC 
Unit outlining the roles and reporting lines of key 
personnel (including to its Parent Entity) 
 
  
22.  For each Board and Management Committee, provide the 
following details: 
i) Mandate 
ii) Composition 
iii) Reporting Lines 
 
  
23.  Describe any conflicts of interest envisaged and how the 
Applicant's corporate governance structure and 
mechanisms will reduce or resolve them. 
 
  
Human resources in the IFSC 
 
24.  Provide details of the Applicant’s proposed human 
resource deployment in IFSC. Also describe various 
business activities (including front and back-office 
operations) to be carried out in the IFSC.  
 
  
25.  Identify any key-person risk for the Applicant and 
describe the measures in place (such as succession 
planning or retention policies) for tackling them. 
 
  
Business support activities proposed to be conducted from outside the 
IFSC  
 
26.  What activities will be conducted from outside IFSC? 
And Why? 
 
  
27.  Where will these activities be conducted from?  
  
28. What are the Inherent risks of conducting these activities 
from outside IFSC? How these risks will be mitigated? 
 
  
IT System 
 

[PAGE 27]
 
27 
 
29. Describe (functions, capability, location etc.) the IT 
systems (Hardware, Software and Network) that the 
Applicant will use to support its business activities 
regarding: 
 
Risk management, Compliance monitoring, financial 
accounting, Suspicious transactions surveillance and 
reporting, Recordkeeping of customer information and 
execution of transactions, Data back‑up and 
redundancy, IT security and other cyber‑related risks.  
 
 
  
Risk management 
 
30. Describe the key internal and external risks that the 
applicant's planned business will face, as well as how it 
plans to mitigate those risks. Indicate the policies that 
will be implemented to identify and reduce these risks. 
 
  
31. Indicate if risk management will be the responsibility of a 
specified person. Describe that person’s training and 
experience for the position, as well as whether they are 
a part of senior management. 
 
  
32. Will there be a board or management committee 
specifically charged with handling risk-related matters, 
and if so, what will its mandate be? 
 
  
33. How often do senior management and the Governing 
Body propose to receive risk reports? 
 
  
34. In the event of a disruptive occurrence, describe the 
business continuity and disaster recovery plan. 
 
  
Compliance arrangements 
 
35.  Describe the Applicant's compliance functions. Indicate 
the persons responsible and their interactions with risk 
management, internal audit, and group compliance 
functions. 
 
  
36.  How will the Applicant establish a culture of compliance 
within the organisation? 
 
  
37. Describe the scope and periodicity of compliance audits.  
  
38. Provide an overview of the compliance monitoring 
framework. 
 
  
39. Describe measures proposed to be adopted for 
resolving complaints. 
 

[PAGE 28]
 
28 
 
  
40. How will the Applicant ensure that competence and 
training are ingrained into its business culture? 
 
  
Anti‑Money Laundering and Counter and Combating the Financing of 
Terrorism (AML/CFT) 
 
41. Briefly explain the applicant's risk-based approach to 
AML/CFT compliance. Also, provide details of how the 
applicant will track, identify, and report suspicious 
customers, activities, and transactions. 
 
  
42. Will the applicant have any third parties arrangements to 
conduct one or more elements of customer due 
diligence? 
 
  
43.  Describe the scope and frequency of AML/CFT reviews 
or audits. 
 
  
44.  Briefly explain the policies and processes in place to 
ensure that employees are informed of their legal 
obligations with regard to AML/CFT and the 
repercussions of non-compliance. 
 
  
Internal audit 
 
45. Describe the internal audit function's scope, 
organizational structure, reporting lines and staffing. 
Illustrate independence and the separation of 
functions. If the applicant is a member of a group, 
describe how the group's internal audit function 
interacts with the applicant's internal audit function. 
 
  
46. If the internal audit process is outsourced, provide 
details on the selection procedure and due diligence for 
their appointment.  
 
 
  
Financial projections 
 
47. Applicant is required to provide annual financial 
projections (including assumptions made) for a 5‑year 
period. Please provide the following: 
 
• Balance sheet 
• Profit & Loss statement 
• Cash flow statement 
• Provide source of capital 
 
  
 
 

[PAGE 29]
 
29 
 
Section D: SEZ Specific Information 
S. 
No. 
Particulars 
 
Comments 
/ Remarks 
(for SEZ 
use) 
Details of Applicant  
1. Name of Bank with Address & Account No.  
  
2. Digital Signature Identifier number  
  
3. Income Tax PAN (Attach copy)  
  
Investment  
4. Office Equipment such as computers, servers, office furniture   
 
 (Rs. In Lakhs) 
(a) Indigenous  
(b) Import CIF value  
(c) Total (a) + (b)  
 
 
 
5. Details of source(s) of finance  
  
Infrastructure Requirements  
6. Requirement of land/Office Space (Area in sq. mtrs.)  
   
Employment  
7. Men  
  
8. Women  
  
9. Transgenders  
  
Shareholding of IFSC Unit  
10. Equity Capital including Foreign Investment  
 
 ($ in thousand) (Rs. In lakhs) 
(a) Authorised    
(b) Subscribed   
(c) Paid up 
Capital 
  
 
Note: If it is an existing company, give the break up of existing and 
proposed capital structure 
 
 
 
11. Shareholding Pattern   
 
 ($ in thousand) (Rs. In lakhs) 
 

[PAGE 30]
 
30 
 
(a) Foreign 
holding 
  
(b) Indian holding   
(c) IFSC holding   
Total Equity   
 
  
Other Information 
 
 
12. Whether the applicant has been issued any Industrial license or LOI/LOA 
under EOU/SEZ/STP/EHTP scheme. If so, give full particulars, namely 
reference number, date of issue, items of manufacture and progress of 
implementation of each project. 
 
13. Whether the applicant or any of the partner/Director who are also 
partners/ Directors of another company or firms its associate concerns 
are being proceeded against or have been debarred from getting any 
License/Letter of Intent/ Letter of Permission under Foreign Trade 
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 or Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 or Customs Act, 1962 or Central Excise Act, 
1944. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Place:        Signature of the Applicant     
Date:                  Name in Block Letters    
       Designation    
                                                              Tel. No.    
                                                                   E-mail    
Official Seal/Stamp                                    Web-Site, if any    
                                                                  Full Residential Address 
 
 
UNDERTAKING 
 
I/We hereby declare that the above statements are true and correct to the best  of  my/our   
knowledge      and      belief.   I/We     shall     abide    by      any      other condition, which   
may be stipulated by the Development Commissioner. 
 
I/We fully understand that any Permission Letter/Approval granted to me/us on the basis of 
the statement furnished is liable to cancellation or any other action that may be taken having 
regard to  the circumstances of the case if it is found that any of the statements or facts 
therein furnished are incorrect or false. 
 
An affidavit duly sworn in support of the above information is enclosed. 
 
Place:                                                    Signature of the Applicant    
Date:                                                    Name in Block Letters    
                                                                           Designation    
 

[PAGE 31]
 
31 
 
                                                                           Official Full Official address    
 
Seal/Stamp                                                         Tel. No. 
                                                                            E-mail Address    
                                                                            Web Site Address    
                                                                            Full Residential address    
                                                                            Tel. No   
  
 
Section E: Declaration by Authorized Signatory of the Applicant 
 
A Declaration cum undertaking containing following details on the l etter head of the applicant 
stating that: 
a) We hereby declare that the information supplied in this application, including the attachment 
sheets, is complete, authentic and true, and nothing has been concealed therein. 
b) The activities proposed in the IFSC are in line with the object clause of the applicant as  
provided in the MoA/Prospectus.   
c) The applicant and its promoters/principal officers/founders/ directors/ partners/ designated 
partners, key managerial personnel and controlling shareholders are fit an d proper persons 
(please refer Section H). 
d) We shall ringfence the operations of branch(es) from other operations of the applicant 
(applicable in case of branch) 
e) We shall notify IFSCA immediately of any material change in the information provided in the 
application. 
f) We declare that any funds / capital in operation with respect to our business operations in 
IFSC are not from the proceeds of crime.   
g) We shall ensure that the key activities of Investment decision, portfolio management and 
grievance handling sha ll be undertaken from IFSC (applicable only for Fund Management 
entities) 
h) We further undertake to comply with, and be bound by the International Financial Services 
Centres Authority Act, 2019, and the regulations, circulars, guidelines, rules, etc. and 
instructions thereunder as may be applicable from time to time [including any modifications 
or re-enactments thereof] 
i) We further agree that as a condition of registration, we shall at all times abide by such 
operational instructions/directives as may be issued by the IFSCA from time to time. 
j) We shall, to the satisfaction of IFSCA, furnish any other information as may be sought by 
IFSCA. 
 
For and on behalf of (Please insert name of the applicant)  
Authorised signatory  
(Name)(Signature) 
(With seal / stamp of the Applicant)  
Date: 
Place: 
 
 

[PAGE 32]
 
32 
 
 
Section F: Information on Management (IOM) 
Instructions:  
0. This section is to be filled by the applicants who are willing to establish a unit in the IFSC 
in an incorporated form.  
1. This section is not applicable for the applicants who are willing to establish its office in an 
unincorporated form such as place of business or branch office etc. provided the applicant 
entity is regulated by a Financial Sector Regulator in its home country. 
2. This section is only to be filled by Natural persons and not by body-corporates i.e to include 
all persons acting in the capacity o f Promoters/  Key Managerial Personnel/ Founders/ 
Shareholder(s) holding 10% & above shares and/or voting rights and/or distributable 
dividend/ Designated Partners/ Authorised Representatives/ Directors/ Principal 
Officer/Persons in control,  of the Applican t, a separate self -attested form shall be 
submitted.   
 
Sr. 
No. Particulars Remarks by 
IFSCA 
1) 
Name    
 
  
2) 
Director / Designated Partner Identification Number (DIN / 
DPIN) if any   
 
  
3) 
Designation in company/ Legal Form    
 
  
 
4) 
Nationality 
  
  
  
 
  
Country 
  
 
  
Passport Number, if any 
  
 
  
 
5) 
Date of Birth (DD\MM\YYYY)   
  

[PAGE 33]
 
33 
 
Sex  
  
6) 
Business Address (along with Phone, Fax and Email)   
 
 
 
  
7) 
Residential Address (along with Phone, Fax and Email) with 
supporting document   
  
8) 
Permanent Account Number (PAN) under Income Tax Act 
/ Tax Identification No. / Tax Residency No.    
  
9) 
Date of Appointment to current post  
  
10) 
Key functions and responsibilities in the IFSC unit.  
  
11) 
Position in the organizational hierarchy of the Applicant (in 
case of branch, also include reporting relationships to the 
parent entity)  
  
12) 
No. of Shares / % of Shareholding in the Applicant  
  
13) 
Detailed Resume outlining qualifications and experience.  
 
  
14)  
Is the promoter/director/founder associated with any other 
entity in any capacity? 
 
If yes, please furnish the name(s) of other organizations or 
entities or associations or unincorporated entities in which 
the person has held the post of Chairman or Managing 
Director or Director or Chief Executive Officer or associated 
with the above entities in any other capacity indicating the 
activity of the company and regulators, if any. 
  
  
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 34]
 
34 
 
 
 
Section G: Fit and Proper Criteria 
 
For the purpose of Fit and proper criteria as given here, the term ‘functionaries’ include (but are 
not limited to) the following officials of the applicant. Separate form should be submitted by each 
functionary. For, all the questions below, provide details for the past 8 years.  
• Promoters 
• Founders 
• Directors 
• Key Managerial Personnel 
• Principal Officers 
• Persons /Shareholders having 10% and above share/voting rights/ distributable dividend 
• Authorised Representatives 
• Any other person, as maybe specified. 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Particulars Comments/Remarks 
(For IFSCA Use) 
0 Whether any of the functionaries or any of the 
entities associated with1 the functionary have 
been refused a Registration/ Authorization/ 
License by the IFSCA or any other regulatory 
authority or their Registration/ Authorization/ 
License has been suspended at any time prior 
to this application.  
 
(If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a 
declaration to that effect). 
 
1for this Section, a person is said to be 
‘associated with’ an entity if he/she is/ was a 
functionary of the entity 
 
 
 
 
1 Whether the functionary or any of the 
companies/ entities in which the functionary 
is/ was associated with 1, is in default or have 
defaulted in the past in respect of credit 
facilities obtained from any entity or bank? 
 
(If yes, please furnish information about the 
default and the name of the lending 
institution) 
 
  
 
 
2 Whether any of the functionaries have been 
disqualified to act as promoter/ director/ key 
 

[PAGE 35]
 
35 
 
managerial personnel under any law in any 
jurisdiction where the applicant entity or the 
group companies of the applicant entity are 
operating? 
 
 If yes, please furnish details. 
  
 
 
3 Name/s of the companies, firms, partnership 
firms, in which any of the functionaries hold 
substantial interest. (An enterprise is 
considered to have a substantial interest in 
another enterprise if that enterprise owns, 
directly or indirectly, 20 per cent or more 
interest in the voting power of the other 
enterprise. Similarly, an individual is 
considered to have a substantial interest in 
an enterprise, if that individual owns, directly 
or indirectly, 20 per cent or more interest in 
the voting power of the enterprise.) 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
4 Whether the Applicant/Group or any of the 
functionaries are/ were undergoing/ involved 
in any investigation/ disciplinary action/ legal 
or regulatory violations/ criminal case by any 
law enforcement/ regulatory agencies? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
  
 
 
 
5 Whether any order has been passed by any 
bankruptcy/ resolution authority against any 
company/ entity with which any of the 
functionaries are/ were associated9? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
  
 
 
 
6 Whether any of the functionaries have been 
convicted by a court for any offence involving 
moral turpitude or any economic offence or 
any offence against securities laws? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
   

[PAGE 36]
 
36 
 
 
 
 
7 Whether a recovery proceeding has been 
initiated against any of the functionaries by a 
financial regulatory authority and is pending? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
8 Whether an order for winding up has been 
passed against any of the functionaries for 
malfeasance?  
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
9 Whether an order restraining, prohibiting or 
debarring any of the functionaries from 
accessing or dealing in financial products or 
financial services, has been passed by any 
regulatory authority/ courts, and a period of 
five years from the date of the expi ry of the 
period specified in the order has not elapsed?  
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
  
 
 
 
10 Whether any other order against any of the 
functionaries, which has a bearing on the 
securities market, has been passed by any 
regulatory authority, and a period of five years 
from the date of the order has not elapsed?  
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
  
 
 
 
11 Whether any of the functionaries 
i) have been declared insolvent and not 
discharged? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 37]
 
37 
 
ii) have been found to be of unsound mind by 
a court of competent jurisdiction and the 
finding is in force?  
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
 
 
 
iii) are financially not sound or have been 
categorized as a wilful defaulter? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
 
 
 
iv) have been declared a fugitive economic 
offender? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
 
 
 
We declare that all the functionaries have a record of fairness and integrity, 
including but not limited to financial integrity, good reputation, character and 
honesty. 
 
We undertake to bring to the notice of IFSCA within one week, if any of the above 
actions is initiated against any of the functionaries in future.  
 
 Signature: 
 
 
 
 Name: 
 
 
 
 Designation 
 
 
 
 Seal / Stamp 
 
 
  
 
  
Date:                                       Place:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 38]
 
38 
 
 
 
 
Section H: Document Checklist to be attached with application form 
(Please provide all documents of all concerned as may be applicable) 
 
Sr. No. Supporting Documents Attached 
 
Specify 
Yes/No, as 
applicable 
0.  Certificate of Incorporation / Registration / 
equivalent certificate (A2) 
 
1.  Articles of Association (AOA) (A2)  
2.  Memorandum of Association (MOA) (A12)  
3.  Provisional Letter of Allotment (A5)  
4.  NOC from Home Regulator (A7)  
5.  Board Resolution(s) (B.10)  
6.  Ownership and Group Structure Chart (to ascertain 
UBOs) (B.12) 
 
7.  Last 3 years Audited Financial Statements (Balance 
Sheet, P&L Statement, Income Statement). In case 
of branch, provide above details of Parent entity. 
(B.13) 
 
8.  Net Worth Certificate and Personal Tax Returns 
(B.13) 
 
 
9.  Business Plan (C.14 A)  
10.  Financial Projections for next 5 years (C.46)  
11.  Permanent Account Number (PAN) or any other tax 
identification no. (D.2) 
 
12.  Affidavit as required in Undertaking in Section D  
13.  Declaration on the letter head of the company duly 
signed by the authorized signatory (Section E) 
 
14.  Information on Management (Section F)  
15.  Director /Designated Partner Identification Number 
(DIN/DPIN) (F.1) 
 
16.  Passport (F.3)  
17.  Detailed Resume/CV (F.12)  
18.  Copy of proof of payment of application fees 
(Specify SWIFT MT 103 or UTR No.)  
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 39]
 
39 
 
SCHEDULE III 
[See Section 12 of the Act and regulation 8(1)] 
 
FIT AND PROPER REQUIREMENTS  
 
1. This schedule sets out the fit and proper criteria applicable to all relevant persons. IFSCA 
expects a relevant person to be competent, honest, to have integrity and to be of sound 
financial standing.  
 
2.      The criteria provided in this schedule  are not meant to be exhaustive or a substitute for 
any legal provisions. They should be read in conjunction with any applicable legislation and 
any written instructions, notifications, standards, and additional guidelines that the Authority 
may issue from time to time. 
 
3. A Payment Service Provider shall establish effective systems and controls to ensure that all 
the relevant persons meet the ‘fit and proper’ criteria.  
 
4. A Payment Service Provider must carry out ‘fit and proper’ evaluation, in the format specified 
in the annex, to this schedule of all relevant persons, both at the time of their appointment 
and at reasonably regular frequency thereafter. 
 
5. A relevant person shall be deemed to be a fit and proper person if, based on the evaluation 
undertaken under 3 or any other information available with it, a Payment Service Provider is 
satisfied  - 
 
(a) such person has a record of fairness and integrity, including but not limited to: 
 
(i) financial integrity; 
 
(ii) good reputation and character; and  
 
(iii) honesty.  
 
(b) such person has not incurred any of the following disqualifications – 
 
(i) the person has been convicted by a court for any offence involving moral 
turpitude or any economic offence or any offence against securities laws;  
 
(ii) a recovery proceeding has been initiated against the person by a financial 
regulatory authority and is pending; 
 
(iii) an order for winding up has been passed against the person for malfeasance; 
 
(iv) the person has not been declared an undischarged insolvent  
 
(v) an order, restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person from accessing, 
providing or dealing in financial products or financial services, has been passed 

[PAGE 40]
 
40 
 
by any regulatory authority, and a period of three years from the date of the 
expiry of the period specified in the order has not elapsed; 
 
(vi) any other order against the person, has been  passed by the Authority or any 
other regulatory authority, and a period of three years from the date of the order 
has not elapsed; 
 
(vii) the person has been found to be of unsound mind by a court of competent 
jurisdiction and the finding is in force;  
 
(viii) the person is financially not sound or has been categorised as a wilful 
defaulter;  
 
(ix) the person has been declared a fugitive economic offender; or  
 
(x) any other disqualification as may be specified by the Authority 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 41]
 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex  
 
. 
Sr. 
No. 
Particulars 
1 
 
Whether any of the functionaries or any of the entities associated with1 the 
functionary have been refused a Registration/ Authorization/ License by the 
IFSCA or any other regulatory authority or their Registration/ Authorization/ 
License has been suspended at any time prior to this application.  
 
(If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect). 
 
1for this Section, a person is said to be ‘associated with’ an entity if he/she 
is/ was a functionary of the entity 
 
 
2 Whether the functionary or any of the companies/ entities in which the 
functionary is/ was associated with 1, is in default or have defaulted in the 
past in respect of credit facilities obtained from any entity or bank? 
 
(If yes, please furnish information about the default and the name of the 
lending institution) 
  
 
3 Whether any of the functionaries have been disqualified to act as 
promoter/ director/ key managerial personnel under any law in any 
jurisdiction where the applicant entity or the group companies of the 
applicant entity are operating? 
 
 If yes, please furnish details. 
  
 
4 Name/s of the companies, firms, partnership firms, in which any of the 
functionaries hold substantial interest. 
 
  
 
 
 
5 Whether the Applicant/Group or any of the functionaries are/ were 
undergoing/ involved in any investigation/ disciplinary action/ legal or 
regulatory violations/ criminal case by any law enforcement/ regulatory 
agencies? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
  
 

[PAGE 42]
 
42 
 
 
6 Whether any order has been passed by any bankruptcy/ resolution 
authority against any company/ entity with which any of the functionaries 
are/ were associated1? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
  
 
 
7 Whether any of the functionaries have been convicted by a court for any 
offence involving moral turpitude or any economic offence or any off ence 
against securities laws? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
  
 
 
 
8 Whether a recovery proceeding has been initiated against any of the 
functionaries by a financial regulatory authority and is pending? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
  
 
 
 
9 Whether an order for winding up has been passed against any of the 
functionaries for malfeasance?  
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
  
 
 
 
10 Whether an order restraining, prohibiting or debarring any of the 
functionaries from accessing or dealing in financial products or financial 
services, has been passed by any regulatory authority/ courts, and a period 
of five years from the date of the expiry of the period specified in the order 
has not elapsed?  
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
  
 
 
11 Whether any other order against any of the functionaries, which has a 
bearing on the securities market, has been passed by any regulatory 
authority, and a p eriod of five years from the date of the order has not 
elapsed?  
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
  
 

[PAGE 43]
 
43 
 
 
12 Whether any of the functionaries 
i) have been declared insolvent and not discharged? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
 
 
ii) have been found to be of unsound mind by a court of competent 
jurisdiction and the finding is in force?  
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
 
iii) are financially not sound or have been categorized as a wilful defaulter? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
 
iv) have been declared a fugitive economic offender? 
 
If yes, please furnish details. 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 44]
 
44 
 
 
SCHEDULE IV 
[See Section 12 of the Act and regulation 14(1)] 
SURRENDER OF AUTHORISATION  
 
For a Payment Service Provider that has commenced operations  
1. A Payment Service Provider that has commenced operations and wishes to surrender 
the authorisation issued to it shall submit the following documents to the Authority: 
 
a. A request in writing by its auth orised signatory along with a copy of the 
resolution of its Board of Directors approving a proposal to surrender such 
authorisation along with the reason for and intent behind such surrender.   
 
b. A certificate from its Chartered Accountant about the number of customer 
accounts and amounts held in such accounts as on the date of the resolution 
in 1(a). Such statement should also indicate the name of its Escrow account 
details, outstanding Escrow amount, and liabilities 
  
c. A note outlining the process proposed to be followed by the Payment Service 
Provider and the timeline for extinguishing/ repaying the liabilities to the 
Payment service users, merchants or any other parties.  
 
d. An undertaking duly signed, by its authorised signatory, and clearly stating that 
it would not incur any fresh liability during the process of surrender of 
authorisation and closing down the business. 
 
2. A request for surrender of authorisation shall be considered by the Authority on the 
merits of the request.  
 
3. The Authority shall process such a request communicate its decision to the Payment 
Service Provider. 
 
4. The Authority may advise the  Payment Service Provider to ini tiate certain actions 
including:  
 
a. Issue a public notice in English, Hindi and a vernacular language, in print/visual 
media, on 3 different occasions, informing the payment service users / 
merchants about its intent to surrender its payment services provider 
operations. Such public notice shall, inter alia, indicate:  
i. That the Payment Service users may either use the balances in their e-
wallets or obtain refund, by credit to a bank account, within a stipulated 
period by making a request to the Payment Service Provider.  
ii. The manner of sending of such requests for redemption.   

[PAGE 45]
 
45 
 
iii. Name, contact address, phone number and email id of a Nodal officer 
of the Payment Service Provider to whom such requests are to be sent 
by the customer.  
iv. Time period within which the company would redeem the balance after 
receipt of request from the customer. 
 
b. Submit a monthly progress report on the progress in extinguishing the liabilities 
of the payment service users/merchants. 
 
5. On completing the process of extinguishing the liability to the payment service users 
/merchants the Payment Service Provider shall submit a ‘ No liability’ certificate from 
its Chartered Accountant.  
 
6. The Payment Service Provider shall submit the original Certificate of Authorisation to 
the Authority for cancellation.  
 
For a Payment Service Provider that has yet to commence operations   
1. A Payment Service Provider that is yet to commence operations and wishes to 
surrender the authorisation issued to it shall submit the following documents to the 
Authority: 
 
a. A request in writing by its authorised signatory along with a copy of the 
resolution of its Board of Directors approving a proposal to surrender such 
authorisation along with the reason for and intent behind such surrender.   
 
b. A certificate from a Chartered Accountant to the effect that the Payment 
Service Provider has not comme nced operations for which its had received 
authorisation from the Authority  
 
c. Copy of the latest audited balance sheet of the Payment Service Provider. 
.  
2. Request for surrender of authorisation shall be considered by the Authority on the 
merits of the request. 
 
3. The Authority shall process such a request and communicate its decision to the 
Payment Service Provider. 
 
4. The Payment Service Provider shall submit the original Authorisation certificate to the 
Authority for cancellation.  
 
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 46]
 
46 
 
 
SCHEDULE V 
[See Section 12 of the Act and regulation 4] 
PERSONS EXEMPTED FROM AUTHORISATION 
1. An IFSC Banking Company (IBC) or an IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) licensed or 
permissioned under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (as amended). 
 
2. A person licensed to carry on the business of issuing credit cards or charge cards in 
IFSC. 
 
3. Any other person or class of persons that may be prescribed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 47]
 
47 
 
 
SCHEDULE VI 
[See regulation 7(1)] 
NET WORTH REQUIREMENTS 
1. A Regular Payment Service Provider  must have a net -worth of USD 1 million (or 
equivalent in  a specified foreign currency) on the date of co mmencement of 
operations. A Regular Payment Service Provider must achieve a net-worth of USD 2 
million (or equivalent in a specified foreign currency) by the end of the third financial 
year (i.e., March 31) from the year of commencement of operations 
 
2. A Significant Payment Service Provider  must have a net -worth of USD 2 million (or 
equivalent in  a specified foreign currency) on the date of commencement of 
operations. A Significant Payment Service Provider must achieve a net-worth of USD 
4 million (or equivalent in a specified foreign currency) by the end of the third financial 
year (i.e., March 31) from the year of commencement of operations 
 
3. Net-worth shall consist of paid -up equity capital, preference shares that are 
compulsorily convertible to equity, free reserves, balance in share premium  account 
and capital reserves representing surplus arising out of sale proceeds of assets but 
not reserves created by revaluation of assets adjusted for accumulated loss balance, 
book value of intangible assets and deferred revenue expenditure, if any. Compulsorily 
convertible preference shares can be either non -cumulative or cumulative, and they 
should be compulsorily convertible into equity shares and the shareholder agreements 
should specifically prohibit any withdrawal of this preference capital at any time.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 48]
 
48 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE VII 
Safeguarding of money received from Payment Service User 
[See Section 12 of the Act and regulation 24(1)] 
(1) The directions in sub-section (2) shall apply to every  Significant Payment Service 
Provider that carries on a business of providing any of the following payment services: 
(a) a cross-border money transfer service; 
(b) a merchant acquisition service; 
(c) any other payment service that may be prescribed. 
 (2) A Significant Payment Service Provider mentioned in sub-section (1) must ensure that no 
later than the next business day after any applicable funds is received from, or on account of, a 
payment service user, the whole or such part, as may be prescribed, of the applicable funds, is 
safeguarded through one of the following means : 
(a) by an undertaking, from a safeguarding institution, to be fully liable to the customer 
for the applicable funds ; 
(b) by a  guarantee given by a safeguarding institution for the amount of the applicable 
funds ; 
(c) by depositing the relevant money  in a trust account  maintained with a safeguarding 
institution; 
(d) in such other manner as may be prescribed. 
 (3) The directions in section (4) shall apply to every Significant Payment Service Provider that 
carries on a business of providing either of the following payment services: 
(a) an e-money issuance service; 
(b) any other payment service that may be prescribed. 
 (4) A Significant Payment Service Provider mentioned in section (3) must ensure that from the 
time any applicable fund is received from, or on account of, a customer, the whole or such part, 
as may be prescribed, of the relevant money is safeguarded in one of the following manners: 
(a) by an undertaking, from a safeguarding institution, to be fully liable to the customer 
for the relevant money; 
(b) by a guarantee given by a safeguarding institution for the amount of the relevant 
money; 
(c) by depositing the relevant money in a trust account maintained with a safeguarding 
institution; 
(d) in such other manner as may be prescribed. 
 