SOURCE: 042_ICSI CSJ__CSJ May 2025 - ListingsSPACsESGLEAP.pdf
PAGES: 8
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
GLOBAL CONNECT
MAY 2025   |   45   CHARTERED SECRETARY
CS Pradeep Ramakrishnan, FCS
Executive Director,  
IFSCA GIFT CITY, Gujarat  
pradeep.ramakrishnan@ifsca.gov.in
Arjun Prasad 
General Manager,  
IFSCA GIFT CITY, Gujarat 
arjun.pd@ifsca.gov.in
Akash Boddeda 
Assistant Manager,  
IFSCA GIFT CITY, Gujarat  
akash.boddeda@ifsca.gov.in
Global Listings at GIFT IFSC
Listing securities on a stock exchange provides companies liquidity, fair valuation, and transparency 
in transactions. Companies consider various factors such as listing requirements, capital required, 
industry peers, visibility, market participants, timing, ongoing regulatory requirements and tax 
implications while choosing stock exchanges and jurisdictions for capital raising. This article 
elaborates on the robust legal and regulatory framework set up by the Government of India, in 
coordination with IFSCA and with the support of other financial regulators in India, for enabling the 
implementation and operationalisation of the Direct Listing Scheme.
INTRODUCTION
ACCESSING GLOBAL MARkETS
I
ndia’s total stock market capitalization is more 
than $ 5 trillion, making it the fourth largest in 
the world. This is a significant achievement, given 
that India was a relatively closed economy just a 
few decades ago. With highest number of domestic 
listed companies in the world, India offers both foreign 
individual investors and foreign institutional investors 
attractive investment opportunities.
India’s total stock market capitalization is more than $ 5 trillion, making it the fourth 
largest in the world. This is a significant achievement, given that India was a relatively 
closed economy  just a few decades ago. With highest number of domestic listed 
companies in the world, India offers both foreign individual investors and foreign 
institutional investors attractive investment opportunities. 
 
Financial markets play a vital role in connecting investors with firms that need capital to 
finance their projects. Firms seek the lowest possible cost of capital because this allows 
them to undertake more projects that are financially viable and lead to greater 
investment. Equity capital from global investors is often cheaper than domestic sources 
because global investors are more diversified and have a wider range of investment 
options. 
The world is more interconnected  than ever before , and capital markets are no 
exception, as companies regularly look beyond their own borders/ jurisdictions for 
capital raising opportunities. Companies can access the global capital markets in a 
variety of ways, including cross -border listings, domestic li stings with international 
placements, and private placements. Cross -border listings allow companies to raise 
capital on a foreign stock exchange, reaching a wider pool of investors and potentially 
gaining greater visibility. 
Companies issue securities to r aise capital, provide investors with liquid investments, 
and create wealth. Listing securities on a stock exchange is essential for achieving these 
goals, as it provides liquidity, fair valuation, and transparency in transactions. 
Companies are free to cho ose where to list their securities, but they typically list on a 
domestic exchange. However, a company may also choose to list on a foreign exchange, 
either as a substitute for or a supplement to domestic listing. Globally, many companies 
are interested in overseas listing because it has the potential to improve their ability to 
raise equity, expand their shareholder base, increase brand visibility, and enhance 
trading liquidity. 
Financial markets play a vital role in connecting investors 
with firms that need capital to finance their projects. Firms 
seek the lowest possible cost of capital because this allows 
them to undertake more projects that are financially 
viable and lead to greater investment. Equity capital from 
global investors is often cheaper than domestic sources 
because global investors are more diversified and have a 
wider range of investment options.
The world is more interconnected than ever before, and 
capital markets are no exception, as companies regularly 
look beyond their own borders/ jurisdictions for capital 
raising opportunities. Companies can access the global 
capital markets in a variety of ways, including cross-border 
listings, domestic listings with international placements, 
and private placements. Cross-border listings allow 
companies to raise capital on a foreign stock exchange, 
reaching a wider pool of investors and potentially gaining 
greater visibility.
Companies issue securities to raise capital, provide 
investors with liquid investments, and create wealth. 
Listing securities on a stock exchange is essential for 
achieving these goals, as it provides liquidity, fair valuation, 
and transparency in transactions. Companies are free to 
choose where to list their securities, but they typically list 
on a domestic exchange. However, a company may also 
choose to list on a foreign exchange, either as a substitute 
for or a supplement to domestic listing. Globally, many 
companies are interested in overseas listing because it 
has the potential to improve their ability to raise equity, 
expand their shareholder base, increase brand visibility, 
and enhance trading liquidity.
Companies have a growing number of options to choose 
from when considering stock exchanges and jurisdictions 
for capital raising. Here are some key factors to consider
1:
a) Listing requirements:  Most exchanges have listing 
requirements, such as financial track record, assets, 
minimum number of shareholders, public float, 
1.  Cross-Border Listings Guide by Baker McKenzie, 9 th Edition

[PAGE 2]
GLOBAL CONNECT
46    |   MAY 2025    CHARTERED SECRETARY
minimum share price, and capitalization. Some 
exchanges may be easier to qualify for than others, 
depending on the company’s stage of development. For 
example, a company in the research and development 
phase may be more likely to meet the requirements 
of an exchange that offers assets test financial 
requirements rather than requiring a track record of 
profitability.
b) Capital required:  Some exchanges are better suited 
for large capital raisings due to their size and liquidity, 
while others may offer a more efficient way to raise 
smaller amounts of capital more quickly. Additionally, 
some exchanges have more flexible requirements for 
already-listed companies to raise additional capital, 
such as allowing flexibility in structuring and size of 
placements.
c) Industry peers: Peer companies in the same industry 
may be more prevalent on certain exchanges, which 
can help attract investors and analysts with experience 
in the relevant sectors who can provide more accurate 
valuations. Similarly, investor appetite for the 
quality, stage of development, and 
risks associated with a particular 
product may vary from market to 
market.
d) Visibility: A company with 
significant presence in a particular 
jurisdiction may find it beneficial 
to establish visibility and brand 
recognition by listing or raising 
capital in that jurisdiction. A 
company may also seek to increase 
its overall global prominence, 
which could factor into the cross-
border capital raising decision.
e) Market participants:  Different 
exchanges may have market 
participants with different levels 
of understanding of the company’s 
business. Investment banks and other market 
participants with a deep pool of research analysts 
and other investment professionals can help drive 
successful capital raising and a strong aftermarket.
f) Timing: Executing a capital raising at the right time 
in the right market is an important factor for many 
companies to consider, especially during times of 
significant market volatility. For example, a company 
whose home jurisdiction is facing economic and 
market challenges may be better off listing and/or 
raising capital abroad to meet its financial needs at 
that particular time.
g) Ongoing regulatory requirements:  Ongoing 
exchange or securities regulator requirements, such 
as financial and other market disclosure reporting, 
may be more stringent on certain exchanges or in 
certain jurisdictions than others, which can result 
in significant compliance costs. It is important for 
a company to determine early on whether it will be 
able to meet all ongoing regulatory obligations for a 
chosen exchange.
h) Tax implications: The tax implications of listing on a 
particular exchange or raising capital in a particular 
jurisdiction are also considered. 
Post economic liberalisation, Indian companies started 
to embrace Depository Receipts in early 1990s. It was 
facilitated by the Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds 
and Ordinary Shares (Through Depository Receipt 
Mechanism) Scheme, 1993. This scheme was particularly 
popular among companies in the new information 
technology sector. However, the wave of Depository 
Receipt – listings by Indian Companies did not last long, 
and a steep decline was observed in the subsequent years.
The International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) can 
play a significant role in further development of the 
financial markets and attracting capital flows in India. The 
Government of India established International Financial 
Services Centres Authority under the International 
Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 2019 passed by 
the Union Parliament.
The International Financial Services 
Centres Authority (IFSCA) has been 
established by the Government of 
India with a mandate to develop and 
regulate financial products, financial 
services, and financial institutions in the 
international financial services centres 
(IFSCs) in India. One of the primary 
goals of IFSCA is to position the IFSC 
as the gateway for India’s international 
financial flows, both inbound and 
outbound.
In the last decade, India has witnessed 
remarkable transformation and has 
made rapid strides on multiple fronts. 
With robust policies and innovative 
reforms coupled with a burgeoning entrepreneurial spirit, 
India has emerged as the world’s fastest growing large 
economy and is all set to emerge as a powerhouse on the 
global economic stage. Under the Viksit Bharat@2047 , 
the Government of India has set a goal to achieve the 
status of a developed and a prosperous country by 2047, 
the centenary year of its independence. However, in order 
to achieve such an ambitious target, it is important to 
attract global capital to meet the burgeoning needs for 
economic growth and development of India.
A standout feature in the India growth story has been the 
phenomenal rise of India’s thriving and vibrant start-up 
ecosystem. These start-ups, fueled by a dynamic pool of 
talent and innovative ideas, are driving economic growth 
and employment generation. Sustained and concerted 
efforts by the Government have led to an exponential 
increase in the number of Department for Promotion of 
Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) recognised start-
ups, which stands at 140,1761 as on June 24, 2024. 
The Foreign Exchange 
Management (Non-debt 
Instruments) Amendment 
Rules, 2024 and the 
Companies (Listing 
of Equity Shares in 
Permissible Jurisdictions) 
Rules, 2024 (“LEAP Rules”) 
provide the framework 
for direct listing of 
equity shares by public 
Indian companies on the 
International Exchanges at 
GIFT IFSC.
Global Listings at GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 3]
GLOBAL CONNECT
MAY 2025   |   47   CHARTERED SECRETARY
In the above context, it is therefore felt that it is an 
opportune time to consider further liberalizing the 
equity capital raising framework by allowing companies 
listed in India to access foreign capital by enabling 
them to directly list their equity shares on the IFSC  
exchanges.
DIRECT LISTING
The Hon’ble Union Minister of Finance and Corporate 
Affairs of India on July 28, 2023, announced the decision 
of Government of India to allow direct listing of equity 
shares of public Indian Companies on the international 
exchanges in the IFSC.
The Government of India, in coordination with IFSCA 
and with the support of other financial regulators in India, 
has created a robust legal and regulatory framework for 
enabling the implementation and operationalisation of 
the Direct Listing Scheme. The Government of India 
had on January 24, 2024, notified the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Non-debt Instruments) Amendment 
Rules, 2024
2 and the Companies (Listing of Equity Shares 
in Permissible Jurisdictions) Rules, 2024 3 (“LEAP Rules”) 
providing the framework for direct listing of equity 
shares by public Indian companies on the International 
Exchanges at GIFT IFSC.
The Direct Listing Scheme provides an overarching 
framework for the issuance and listing of equity shares 
of public Indian companies on international exchanges. 
Prior to this, Indian companies were not allowed to issue 
or list equity shares abroad. This policy initiative, to enable 
listing of Indian companies in GIFT IFSC, is expected to 
reshape the Indian capital market landscape and offer 
Indian companies, especially start-ups and companies in 
the sunrise and technology sectors, an alternative avenue 
to access global capital beyond the domestic exchanges.
The eligibility criteria for a public Indian company to 
list its equity shares on an international exchange in the 
IFSC has been provided in the Direct Listing Scheme 
provided under FEM (NDI) Rules, 2019 and the LEAP 
Rules. A public Indian company may issue equity shares 
or offer equity shares of existing shareholders, subject 
to prohibited activities, and sectoral caps prescribed in 
paragraph 2 and 3 of Schedule I of the FEM (NDI) Rules, 
2019.
Further, equity shares listed in the IFSC shall be in 
dematerialized form and rank pari passu  with equity 
shares listed on a recognised stock exchange in India. The 
non-resident investors have been permitted to purchase 
or sell equity shares of Indian companies listed on the 
stock exchanges in GIFT IFSC. More details in this 
regard can be accessed from the FAQs
4 issued by Central 
Government on Direct listing.
2. https://ifsca.gov.in/Document/Legal/foreign-exchange-management-
nondebt-instruments-amendment-rules-2024-24012024061058.pdf 
3. https://ifsca.gov.in/Document/Legal/the-companies-listing-of-equity-
shares-in-permissible-jurisdictions-rules-202424012024061147.pdf 
4. https://ifsca.gov.in/Viewer?Path=Document%2FLegal%2Ffaqs-issued-by-
central-government-of-india-on-direct-listing-scheme24012024061356.
pdf 
RBI has also issued the necessary amendments in the 
Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign Currency 
Accounts by a person resident in India) Regulations, 20155 
and Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment 
and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regulations, 
2019
6, thus providing the necessary enablers inter alia for 
maintaining foreign currency account by Indian issuer 
in the IFSC and remittance of proceeds of the issue from 
IFSC to India.
IFSCA has constituted a Standing Committee on Primary 
Markets (chaired by Shri Mohandas Pai) to advise IFSCA 
on the various policy and regulatory matters on a periodic 
basis to facilitate the development of a vibrant and robust 
ecosystem for primary markets in the IFSC.
IFSCA LISTING FRAMEwORk
Post the establishment of IFSCA, The development of 
capital markets in the IFSC has been a priority area of 
the IFSCA and towards this end, the Authority in its 
endeavor to develop a comprehensive and consistent 
regulatory framework based on global best practices 
with a special focus on ease of doing business, enacted 
an all-encompassing framework, it has issued a 
robust regulatory framework in respect of listing of 
financial products in the IFSC. The IFSCA (Listing) 
Regulations, 2024
7 (“Listing Regulations”) were notified 
and published in the Gazette of India on August 29, 
2024. These regulations have been formulated with the 
dual objectives of ensuring ease of doing business and 
protecting the interests of investors in the capital market  
ecosystem. 
 Benchmarking with international best practices
 The Listing Regulations have been prepared, 
taking into consideration Principles relating to the 
issuer (Principles 16 - 18) of the IOSCO Objectives 
and Principles of Securities Regulation (“IOSCO 
Principles”), as mentioned below:
 a)  Principle 16 - There should be full, accurate and 
timely disclosure of financial results, risk and 
other information which is material to investors’ 
decisions.
 b)  Principle 17 - Holders of securities in a company 
should be treated in a fair and equitable manner; 
and
 c)  Principle 18  - Accounting standards used by 
issuers to prepare financial statements should be 
of a high and internationally acceptable quality.
 The best practices followed in other jurisdictions 
including USA, UK, Hong Kong and Singapore have 
been studied while preparing the Regulations. 
5. https://ifsca.gov.in/Viewer?Path=Document%2FLegal%2Ffema-
10r-3-30042024063324.pdf 
6. https://ifsca.gov.in/Viewer?Path=Document%2FLegal%2Ffema-395-2- 
30042024063357.pdf 
7. https://ifsca.gov.in/Viewer?Path=Document%2FLegal%2Fifsca-listing-
regulations-202430082024045210.pdf 
Global Listings at GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 4]
GLOBAL CONNECT
48    |   MAY 2025    CHARTERED SECRETARY
 The Listing regulations provides a unified regulatory framework for listing of various financial products as illustrated 
below:
 (a) an initial public offer of specified securities by an unlisted entity;
 (b) a follow-on public offer of specified securities by a Listed entity;
 (c) an initial public offer of specified securities by a Special Purpose Acquisition Company;
 (d) a rights issue or a preferential issue or a qualified institutions placement of specified securities by a Listed Entity;
 (e) issuance and listing of depository receipts by an entity;
 (f) issue and listing of debt securities by an entity;
 (g) secondary listing of securities by an entity;
 (h) listing of Commercial Paper or Certificates of Deposit or other financial products as permitted by the Authority.
Listing Regulations enable companies incorporated in India, IFSC and FATF compliant foreign jurisdictions to list their 
securities.
The following are the salient features of Listing Regulations:
IPO in GIFT IFSC
Eligibility Criteria
Revenue Test USD 20 million in last financial year or averaged over last three financial years (or)
Profit Test Pre-tax profit of USD 1 million in last financial year or averaged over last three financial 
years (or)
Market Capitalisation Test Post issue market capitalisation of USD 25 million.
Filing of Offer Document
 Issuers required to file offer document with IFSCA for observations.
 Issuers with issue size of USD 50 million or less exempted.
Disclosures in Offer Document
 Offer document shall contain all material disclosures which are true, correct and adequate to enable the investors to take 
an informed investment decision.
 Financial information of the issuers shall not be older than 135 days.
 Accounting Standards: IFRS or US GAAP or Ind AS or accounting standards as applicable in its jurisdiction of 
incorporation.
 (However, in case an issuer is preparing financial statements as per the accounting standards of its home jurisdiction, it 
shall be required to reconcile the same with IFRS).
 Disclosures shall include: (a) Offer Document Summary (b) Risk factors (c) Introduction of Offer (d) General Information 
(e) Capital Structure (f) Particulars of the issue (g) underwriting (h) Tax implication for the investors (i) About the Issuer 
(j) Financial Statements (k) Material related party transactions (l) Legal and other information (m) Details of major group 
companies (n) Regulatory and other disclosures.
Offer Timing
 Within a period of not more than 12 months from the date of issuance of observations by IFSCA.
Offer Period
 IPO shall be kept open for at least one working day and not more than ten working day.
Pricing
 The issuer shall determine pricing in consultation with the lead manager(s) and may be through a fixed price mechanism 
or through book building mechanism and the same shall be suitably disclosed in the offer document.
(Provided that in case of listing of equity shares by a public Indian company, the issuer shall also comply with the 
requirements prescribed under schedule XI of the Foreign Exchange Management (Non-debt Instruments) Rules, 2019.)
Minimum Public Offer
Indian Company: In accordance with the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
Foreign Company: Minimum public offer as well as minimum public shareholding of 10 per cent of the post 
issue capital.
Global Listings at GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 5]
GLOBAL CONNECT
MAY 2025   |   49   CHARTERED SECRETARY
Underwriter
 May be underwritten (Adequate disclosures regarding underwriting arrangements shall be disclosed in the offer document).
Anchor Investor
 Issuer may offer a portion of the issue size for subscription by anchor investors, subject to disclosures made in the offer 
document such as details of anchor investors, proposed maximum limit of allotment to anchor investors, lockup (if any), 
pricing etc.
Monitoring Agency
 Issuer may choose to appoint a credit rating agency as a monitoring agency for monitoring the use of proceeds of the issue.
Lockup
 Pre-issue shareholding of promoters and controlling shareholders of the issuer shall be locked up for a period of 180 days 
from the date of allotment in the initial public offer.
Rights Issues, Preferential Issues and Qualified Institutions Placement
 A listed entity on a recognised stock exchange can issue rights issues, preferential issues or qualified institutions placement 
of specified securities, if such entity fulfils the requirements that may be specified by the recognised stock exchange(s) and 
IFSCA from time to time.
Secondary Listing
 Framework enables secondary listing of the specified securities of the company on the stock exchanges in IFSC if the 
securities are already listed in an FATF compliant jurisdiction.
Depository Receipts (DRs)
IPOs of DRs
Offer Size: Minimum USD 700,000/-
Minimum Subscription: Minimum USD 700,000/-
Secondary Listing  is permitted.
SPAC (Special Purpose Acquisition Company)
 SPAC is a company which does not have any operating business and has been formed with the primary objective to affect 
a business combination. SPACs have witnessed a surge in recent years in some of the jurisdictions (particularly USA) and 
are seen as an alternative to traditional IPOs for many companies to raise funds.
 The IFSCA has specified the regulatory framework for listing SPACs based on global best practices. The IFSCA’s listing 
framework gives scope for innovation and at the same time has the necessary checks and balances to protect the interests 
of investors. The framework on SPACs is aimed at facilitating the start-up ecosystem by providing access to global capital.
Process Flow of SPAC
 
 Framework enables secondary listing of the specified securities of the company on 
the stock exchanges in IFSC if the securities are already listed in an FATF 
compliant jurisdiction. 
 
 
Depository Receipts (DRs) 
 
IPOs of DRs 
Offer Size: minimum USD 700,000/- 
Minimum Subscription: minimum USD 700,000/- 
Secondary Listing is permitted. 
 
SPAC (Special Purpose Acquisition Company) 
 
 SPAC is a company which does not have any operating business and has been 
formed with the primary objective to affect a business combination. SPACs have 
witnessed a surge in recent years in some of the jurisdictions (particularly USA) 
and are seen as an alternative to traditional IPOs for many companies to raise 
funds. 
 
 The IFSCA has specified the regulatory fra mework for listing SPACs based on 
global best practices. The IFSCA’s listing framework gives scope for innovation and 
at the same time has the necessary checks and balances to protect the interests of 
investors. The framework on SPACs is aimed at facilitat ing the start-up ecosystem 
by providing access to global capital. 
 
Process Flow of SPAC 
 
 
 
Regulatory Framework for Listing of SPAC 
 
IPOs SPACs must raise at least $50 million through an IPO. 
Sponsors SPAC sponsors must own at least 15% to 20% of the post-
issue paid-up capital. 
Escrow 100% Proceeds of the IPO to be kept in interest bearing 
escrow account controlled by an independent custodian. 
Application Size minimum USD 100,000 
Redemption If a shareholder (other than sponsors) has voted against 
Regulatory Framework for Listing of SPAC
IPOs SPACs must raise at least $50 million through an IPO.
Sponsors SPAC sponsors must own at least 15% to 20% of the post-issue paid-up capital.
Escrow 100% Proceeds of the IPO to be kept in interest bearing escrow account controlled by an 
independent custodian.
Application Size Minimum USD 100,000
Redemption If a shareholder (other than sponsors) has voted against the proposed business combination, 
he shall have the redemption right for converting his securities into a pro rata portion of the 
aggregate amount held in the escrow account (net of taxes payable).
Timeline Within the timeline disclosed in the offer document (not exceeding 36 months).
Global Listings at GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 6]
GLOBAL CONNECT
50    |   MAY 2025    CHARTERED SECRETARY
Debt Securities
 The regulatory framework facilitates listing of debt securities (including issuances under Medium Term Notes) on the 
recognized stock exchanges in IFSC. Debt securities may be offered on a standalone basis or through a series of issuances.
Minimum subscription The minimum subscription amount for an investor in case of private placement shall be 
disclosed in the offer document.
Credit Rating The issuer shall obtain credit rating for its debt securities proposed to be listed on a 
recognised stock exchange from a credit rating agency registered either with IFSCA or with 
a regulator in a Foreign Jurisdiction.
Provided that from April 01, 2025 or such other date as may be specified by IFSCA, the issuer 
shall obtain a credit rating from at least one credit rating agency registered with IFSCA and 
may obtain any additional credit rating(s) from a globally recognised rating agency which is 
registered with a regulator in a Foreign Jurisdiction.
The issuer shall disclose details of the ratings, assigned to the debt securities, in the 
prospectus, shelf prospectus or information memorandum, as the case may be.
Public Issue With respect to a public issue of debt securities on a recognised stock exchange, the issuer 
shall meet compliances such as appointment of trustee, creation of debenture redemption 
reserve etc. that may be specified by IFSCA or the recognised stock exchange(s).
Exempt Issuers The recognised stock exchange(s) may, if satisfied on the basis of an application made by an 
issuer, relax the applicability of certain requirements, as the case may be, in accordance with 
its internal policy or guidelines, for the following issuers:
(a) Supranational, multilateral or statutory institutions /organizations /agencies;
(b) Entities whose securities are irrevocably guaranteed by a Sovereign; and
(c) Any other entity as may be specified by IFSCA.
Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Debt Securities
 IFSCA aims to make the IFSC a prominent centre for sustainable finance, supporting the needs of sustainable projects. 
Towards this end, the Listing Regulations have provisions towards listing of ESG debt securities such as green bonds, 
social bonds, sustainable bonds, and sustainability linked bonds.
Green/ Social/ Sustainability/ Sustainability-linked Bonds
 Green bonds are targeted to finance projects or activities with positive environmental benefits. Proceeds from social 
bonds go towards social projects or activities to achieve positive social output or address a particular social issue. The 
social projects generally target communities such as those living below the poverty line, marginalized communities, 
migrants, unemployed, women, people with disabilities, and displaced persons. Sustainable bonds are raised to achieve 
a combination of green and social objectives. On the other hand, sustainability-linked bond issuers focus on improving 
their performance against specified Key Performing Indictors (KPIs) and link certain targets directly to the coupon paid 
to investors. Unlike green bonds, the use of proceeds can be for general corporate purposes also.
Prescribed Principles/
Taxonomies 
(a) International Capital Market Association (ICMA) Principles / Guidelines; 
(b) Climate Bonds Standard;
(c) ASEAN Standards;
(d) European Union Standards;
(e) Any framework or methodology specified by a competent authority or a financial sector 
regulator in India; or
(f) Other international standards as may be permitted by IFSCA on case-by-case basis.
External Independent Review Mandatory
Additional Disclosures  Allocation Report
 Impact Report
Listing of other Financial Products
Listing of Funds and Investment Trusts
 An issuer may list a fund or an investment trust on a recognised stock exchange in terms of IFSCA (Fund Management) 
Regulations, 2022.
Listing of Commercial Papers (CPs)
Eligible Issuers Issuer meeting the eligibility criteria provided in the Listing Regulations (Except Indian 
issuers).
Global Listings at GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 7]
GLOBAL CONNECT
MAY 2025   |   51   CHARTERED SECRETARY
Conditions  Depository: Demat form and held with a recognised depository in the IFSC or an 
international central securities depository.
 Maturity: Not less than seven days and not more than one year.
 Currency: Specified Foreign Currency.
Eligible Investors The issuer may issue a CP to a person resident in India or to a person resident outside India 
(subject to FEMA).
Initial Disclosures  Issuer Disclosures
 Issue related Disclosures
Continuous Disclosures  Audited financial statements 
 Material or price sensitive information
 Details of default/delays
 Revision in Credit Rating
Buyback  Buyback of a CP, in full or part at prevailing market price; and offer shall be made to all 
investors.
 Buyback offer not to be made before 30 days from date of issuance.
Listing of Certificates of Deposit (CDs)
Eligible Issuers IFSC Banking Units (IBUs) only.
Conditions  Depository: CDs will be in demat form and held with a recognised depository in the 
IFSC or an international central securities depository (ICSD).
Initial Disclosures  Issuer Disclosures
 Issue related Disclosures
Continuous Disclosures  Details such as expected default/ delay/ default in timely fulfilment of its payment 
obligations.
 Any Material event/ development/ action that may adversely affect the fulfilment of its 
payment obligations.
Listing Disclosures and Disclosure Requirements
Companies with specified securities listed on stock exchanges
 Disclosures: Material or Price Sensitive information, Board meetings, Shareholder meetings, Change in directors and 
KMPs, Resignation of auditors, Adverse opinions by auditors, Details of encumbrances, Shareholding Pattern, Financial 
Statements, Corporate Governance, Sustainability Reporting , Whistleblower Mechanism etc.
 Reports: Annual report, quarterly financial results, sustainability report.
Secondary Listing of specified securities
 Maintain listing on home exchange.
 Release disclosures on IFSC exchanges at the same time as they are released at its home exchange.
Depository Receipts
 Disclosures: Financial statements, material or price sensitive events, shareholding pattern, corporate governance, change 
of depository, corporate actions and other compliances, etc.
Debt Securities
 Disclosures: Material or Price Sensitive events, financial statements, annual report, revision in credit rating, etc.

 Debt Listing Statistics
 On the debt listing side, GIFT IFSC has emerged as a 
preferred destination, for Indian corporates and PSUs 
to list their foreign currency & masala bonds on the 
IFSC Exchanges.
 This is another example where GIFT IFSC has been 
successful in “ Onshoring the Offshore ” with Indian 
issuers preferring to now list their foreign currency 
& masala bonds on the stock exchanges in the IFSC, 
instead of other global markets. 
 The cumulative debt listing at GIFT IFSC has 
picked up significantly during the last three years. 
At present, the withholding tax for debt securities 
listed on GIFT IFSC exchange is capped at 9%, 
which makes GIFT IFSC the most viable option 
for domestic corporates to raise foreign capital in 
 
India today.
Global Listings at GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 8]
GLOBAL CONNECT
52    |   MAY 2025    CHARTERED SECRETARY
 A total of over 150 bonds have been listed 
on the stock exchanges by around 50 issuers 
totaling USD 63.68 billion (as of 31 st December,  
2024).
 
A total of over 150 bonds have been listed on the stock exchanges by around 50 issuers 
totaling USD 63.68 billion (as of 31st December, 2024). 
 Green Financing Statistics 
 
Sustainable Finance has been a priority area at global fora ( including G20 and IOSCO ). 
IFSCA aims to make the GIFT IFSC a prominent centre  for sustainable finance, 
supporting the needs of sustainable projects. In this regard, IFSC has seen a total ESG -
labelled debt listing of USD 15.43 Billion (as of 31st December, 2025). 
 Green Financing Statistics
 
A total of over 150 bonds have been listed on the stock exchanges by around 50 issuers 
totaling USD 63.68 billion (as of 31st December, 2024). 
 Green Financing Statistics 
 
Sustainable Finance has been a priority area at global fora ( including G20 and IOSCO ). 
IFSCA aims to make the GIFT IFSC a prominent centre  for sustainable finance, 
supporting the needs of sustainable projects. In this regard, IFSC has seen a total ESG -
labelled debt listing of USD 15.43 Billion (as of 31st December, 2025). 
 Sustainable Finance has been a priority area at global 
fora (including G20 and IOSCO). IFSCA aims to make 
the GIFT IFSC a prominent centre for sustainable 
finance, supporting the needs of sustainable projects. 
In this regard, IFSC has seen a total ESG-labelled 
debt listing of USD 15.43 Billion (as of 31
st December, 
2025).
 According to report of Council on Energy 
Environment and Water, India would require 
over USD 10 trillion to achieve net-zero by 2070. 
Out of this USD 10 trillion, a large amount 
of money would need to be mobilized from  
international sources. 
Taking cues from Govt. of India’s Net-Zero 
targets, both PSU’s and Private sector entities 
have publicly announced their Net-Zero target  
timelines.
According to report of Council on Energy Environment and Water, India would require 
over USD 10 trillion to achieve net -zero by 2070. Out of this USD 10 trillion, a large 
amount of money would need to be mobilized from international sources.  
Taking cues from Govt. of India’s 
Net-Zero targets, both PSU’s and 
Private sector entities have publicly 
announced their Net -Zero target 
timelines. 
To achieve these tight ambitious 
timelines Indian issuers and 
corporates will require financing 
from foreign investors for financing 
climate mitigation and adaptation. 
India's corporate sect or has 
experienced a decline in its Debt -
to-Equity ratio, dropping from 
nearly 1.0x in FY15 to below 0.5x in 
FY24. This lower leverage positions 
the sector well to foster growth 
through investments and increased capacity. As a result, companies are likely to feel 
more confident in taking on debt to finance private capital expenditures for potential 
expansion. 
With IFSCA mandating that issuers obtain at least one credit rating from credit rating 
agencies registered with IFSCA for their debt securities to be listed on international 
exchanges at GIFT IFSC from 1st April 2025, this presents a significant opportunity for 
Indian corporates and issuers to secure global ratings through GIFT IFSC, benefiting 
from its integration with international financial markets. By obtaining ratings from 
CRAs operating within GIFT IFSC, Indian entities can access global capital more 
effectively, as these ratings are internationally recognized, thereby facilitating cross -
border transactions and investments. This setup also allows i ssuers to seek additional 
ratings from globally recognized agencies, further enhancing their credibility in the 
global financial landscape.  
And with the impending Rate cuts globally, it is only going to make raising foreign 
currency debt via GIFT IFSC as the most viable option. 
IV. Conclusion 
To sum marise, the Listing Regulations at GIFT IFSC can play a pivotal role in 
transforming and fast -tracking the growth and development of Indian companies and 
start-ups looking to attract global capital. Since massive am ount of global capital is 
necessary to fuel India’s growth trajectory in the coming decades, these Listing 
To achieve these tight ambitious timelines Indian issuers 
and corporates will require financing from foreign investors 
for financing climate mitigation and adaptation.
India’s corporate sector has experienced a decline in its Debt-
to-Equity ratio, dropping from nearly 1.0x in FY15 to below 
0.5x in FY24. This lower leverage positions the sector well to 
foster growth through investments and increased capacity. 
As a result, companies are likely to feel more confident in 
taking on debt to finance private capital expenditures for 
potential expansion.
With IFSCA mandating that issuers obtain at least one 
credit rating from credit rating agencies registered with 
IFSCA for their debt securities to be listed on international 
exchanges at GIFT IFSC from 1
st April 2025, this presents 
a significant opportunity for Indian corporates and issuers 
to secure global ratings through GIFT IFSC, benefiting 
from its integration with international financial markets. By 
obtaining ratings from CRAs operating within GIFT IFSC, 
Indian entities can access global capital more effectively, 
as these ratings are internationally recognized, thereby 
facilitating cross-border transactions and investments. 
This setup also allows issuers to seek additional ratings 
from globally recognized agencies, further enhancing their 
credibility in the global financial landscape. 
And with the impending Rate cuts globally, it is only going 
to make raising foreign currency debt via  GIFT IFSC as the 
most viable option.
CONCLUSION
To summarise, the Listing Regulations at GIFT IFSC can 
play a pivotal role in transforming and fast-tracking the 
growth and development of Indian companies and start-ups 
looking to attract global capital. Since massive amount of 
global capital is necessary to fuel India’s growth trajectory 
in the coming decades, these Listing Regulations have the 
potential to play an instrumental role in attracting untapped 
foreign capital into India.
Moreover, in light of the unique benefits and advantages that 
GIFT IFSC offers, the Indian financial landscape is poised 
for a transformative shift with the advent of direct listing of 
Indian companies in GIFT IFSC. This development not only 
represents a strategic milestone for India’s capital markets 
but also signals the country’s growing ambition to integrate 
more deeply into the global financial system.  
Global Listings at GIFT IFSC