SOURCE: 070_PwC__Asset And Wealth Management.pdf
PAGES: 28
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
Asset and wealth 
management in GIFT IFSC
May 2024

[PAGE 2]
Foreword
India’s economy has grown to USD 3.73 trillion.1 The first trillion was achieved 60 years after independence, and a 
consistent growth rate has been maintained thereafter. In today’s interconnected and dynamic global economy, the 
role of the financial services sector has become increasingly vital. 
As a pioneering initiative in India’s financial landscape, the Government of India launched the Gujarat International 
Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) project in 2007, with an endeavour to develop a smart city that would host an 
International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) to provide a comprehensive platform for various financial activities, 
such as banking, insurance, capital markets, asset and wealth management, FinTech, and access to global 
markets and currencies. 
Representing the nation’s vision to become a global hub for international finance and commerce, GIFT IFSC offers 
world-class infrastructure and a regulatory framework to attract leading financial institutions, businesses and 
investors from around the globe.
This report aims to provide readers with a comprehensive understanding of the unique attributes and business 
opportunities inherent in this dynamic environment. We invite readers to envision the potential that GIFT City holds, 
as well as the opportunities it presents for the future.
I extend my sincere gratitude to all the contributors, whose expertise and insights have enriched this publication.  
I also commend the editorial team for their dedication and diligence in bringing this project to fruition.
May this publication foster continued collaboration, innovation, growth and prosperity of GIFT City and GIFT IFSC.
Gayathri Parthasarathy 
India Financial Services Sector Leader and 
Global Financial Services Technology Leader
PwC India
1. https://www.zeebiz.com/economy-infra/news-india-to-become-3rd-largest-economy-with-gdp-of-usd-5-trillion-in-3-years-finmin-
273873#:~:text=Today%2C%20it%20is%20the%205th,2024%20review%20of%20the%20economy.
2   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 3]
3   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 4]
4   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 5]
GIFT City – an introduction
GIFT City, the Government of India’s flagship project, aims to boost India’s stature on the world map of 
international finance by fostering a favourable regulatory environment, promoting talent and facilitating capital flow 
in the Indian economy.
Recognising India’s financial prowess, Finance Minister Mr. Arun Jaitley announced the establishment of GIFT City 
as India’s inaugural International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) during the Union Budget for 2015-16. 
GIFT City, often labelled the ‘smart city of the future’, is located in Gujarat, nestled between Ahmedabad and 
Gandhinagar. This tri-city ecosystem fosters an environment supporting business, industry, international finance, 
and foreign investment, symbolising both a nostalgic era and a promising future.
Conceived as a vertical city, GIFT City boasts modern infrastructure such as a fully automated district cooling 
system (DCS), automated waste collection system (AWCS) and underground utility tunnels. 
This top-tier infrastructure has played a vital role in establishing GIFT City as a global leader among smart cities.2  
The urban centre is complemented by contemporary social amenities, such as an international school, healthcare 
facilities, a five-star hotel, an international exhibition complex, the GIFT City Business Club with both indoor and 
outdoor sports facilities, diverse dining options, and well-planned residential projects. Collectively, these offerings 
make GIFT City a truly ‘walk-to-work’ city.
2.  https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/national/gifts-ifsc-
amongst-the-fastest-growing-globally/article24935538.ece
Government of India 
operationalised GIFT City 
as an IFSC in 2015
A greenfield smart city 
developed on 886 acres 
of land
Divided into two zones that 
include a Domestic Tariff 
Area (DTA) and Special 
Economic Zone (SEZ)
The financial gateway 
of India for inbound and 
outbound investment
Along National Highway 
48 (Delhi-Mumbai 
Industrial Corridor)
25 mins from Ahmedabad 
International Airport
15 mins from nearest 
railway station and 
upcoming high-speed rail 
1
1
2
2
3
3
5   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 6]
6   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
GIFT City journey so far…
2007
2011
2014
2015
2016
2020
2024
2018
2021-2022
2023
GIFT City project announced 
by Gujarat Government
The foundation stone for the GIFT project 
was laid. Brick and mortar development 
of GIFT City commenced
GIFT City 
notified as SEZ 
for international 
financial services
Ministry of Finance 
notifies India’s first IFSC
Union Budget 
provided a 
competitive 
tax regime for 
units in IFSC
Key announcements:
•
 Ar
ea expansion from 
886 acres to over 
3,300 acres
•
 Development of social 
infrastructur
e including 
entertainment, 
recreational and 
retail
 
zone
•
 Operationalisation of 
metr
o network in GIFT 
City by July 2024
•
 9-km riverfr
ont 
along the banks of 
the Sabarmati River 
near Gift City to be 
developed
IFSC Authority 
(IFSCA) was 
established
RBI notifies 
IFSC as non-
resident zone
IFSCA notified key 
regulations, circulars, 
notifications
SGX Nifty 
begins trading 
as GIFT Nifty 
from GIFT 
City

[PAGE 7]
IFSC
The Government of India launched India’s first IFSC in 2015 to accomplish the vision of becoming a significant 
economic power by fostering the robust growth of international financial services within the nation.
The IFSC is envisioned as a world-class zone dedicated to offering financial services to non-residents and certain 
residents in a foreign currency (other than the Indian rupee [INR]).
Resident 
of India for 
tax
Non-resident 
for FEMA
IFSC
Governing regulator – IFSCA
Established in 2020, the IFSCA plays a role as a statutory body, providing a forward-looking regulatory environment 
for financial market participants and facilitating ease of doing business. It functions as a unified regulator, 
combining the powers of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), and Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority 
(PFRDA) related to financial services, products and institutions within the IFSC. 
In addition to securing approvals from the IFSCA for establishing a unit in IFSC, it is also necessary to obtain 
approvals from the Development Commissioner, SEZ. With effect from 28 February 2024, certain powers and 
functions of the Development Commissioner, SEZ, are now vested with, IFSCA.3 
7   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
3.   Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) Notification S.O. 940(E) dated 28 February 2024

[PAGE 8]
8   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
GIFT IFSC: In numbers4
580+
2
USD 10.43 billion
128
7 29 47
72
95 USD 7.08 billion
USD 66.73 billion
USD 52.97 billion
23 USD 51.98 billion
USD 148 billion
registered entities as on 
31 December 2023
stock exchanges as on  
31 December 2023
green/ESG/sustainable  
debt listing as on 31 
December 2023
aviation assets leased from 
the IFSC till December 2023
ship leasing entities 
registered as on  
December 2023
IFSC insurance offices and 
intermediary offices as on 
31 December 2023
FinTech entities registered 
as on 31 December 2023
broker dealers registered 
as on 31 December 2023
alternative investment 
funds registered as on 
31 December 2023
total commitments raised 
as on 31 December 2023
turnover on IFSC  
international stock 
exchanges in December 2023
cumulative debt listing 
on IFSC exchanges as 
on 31 December 2023
banks registered as on 
31 December 2023
total banking asset size 
as on 31 December 2023
outstanding derivative 
transactions booked by 
banks till December 2023
4. IFSCA Bulletin Oct-Dec 2023

[PAGE 9]
9   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Key benefits: GIFT IFSC
Strategic 
location
Single window 
clearance
Unified 
regulator
World-class 
infrastructure 
Availability of 
talent pool  
Progressive 
regulations
Competitive 
tax regime  State subsidies International 
arbitration centre

[PAGE 10]
10   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Existing  business 
opportunities
Proposed business segments in 
GIFT IFSC
Emerging business segments
Banking
Remote broker dealers in the IFSC
Book-keeping, accounting, taxation 
and financial crime compliance 
services from the IFSC
Aircraft leasing
Capital markets
Ship leasing
Asset and wealth 
management
FinTechInsurance
Global in-house 
centres
Foreign 
universities
Payment service 
providers Global and 
regional treasury 
centres
Bullion

[PAGE 11]
11   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
March 2015
Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI) issues 
SEBI (IFSC) guidelines 
covering investment funds
September 2020
New tax 
framework for 
Category III AIFs 
in the IFSC
November 2018
Operating Guidelines 
for Alternative 
Investment Funds 
(AIFs) in the IFSC 
issued
January 2022
Submission of 
Committee Report 
on Investment 
Funds to the IFSCA
September 2023
Constitution of Fund 
Management Advisory 
Committee (FMAC)
April 2024
Allowance of upto 
100%
 
contribution of  
non-resident Indians 
(NRIs), overseas citizens 
of India (OCIs) or resident 
Indians (RIs) in FPIs 
based
 
out
 
of
 
the IFSC.
Background
Funds in the IFSC: The journey so far…
A vibrant asset and wealth management sector and its eco-system play a pivotal role in the development of the 
IFSC, as underscored by the state-of-the-art regulatory and tax framework for asset and wealth managers in the 
IFSC.
The regulatory framework was notified after an extensive consultation process in the form of the International 
Financial Services Centres Authority (Fund Management) Regulations, 2022 (FME Regulations), which came into 
effect in May 2022. This is an all-encompassing framework prescribing regulations for different types of funds, and 
asset and wealth management activities.
The IFSC has witnessed rapid growth in registrations of fund management entities (FMEs) and funds following the 
issuance of the FME Regulations.
Asset and wealth management in the IFSC
May 2021
Constitution of 
Committee of Experts 
on Investment Funds
May 2022
IFSCA (Fund Management) 
Regulations, 2022, came 
into effect
February 2022
Consultation paper on Draft 
IFSCA (Fund Management) 
Regulations, 2022

[PAGE 12]
12   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Industry overview 
Eligibility and registration
The FME Regulations were notified by the IFSCA via a notification dated 19 April 2022. The regulations offer a 
comprehensive framework to regulate asset and wealth management activities. Unlike the domestic regulatory 
framework for alternative investment funds (AIFs) which seek to register and regulate ‘funds’, the FME Regulations 
regulate ‘fund managers’. Specifically, the FME Regulations adopt a risk-based approach to regulation: If the FME 
seeks to raise monies only from accredited investors or investors with a high investment appetite, the regulatory 
framework is more liberal. With a single registration, fund managers can launch funds more easily and quickly. This 
also eases the business operations for fund managers as they can do multiple activities with a single registration.
An entity which seeks to undertake fund management activities must obtain a certificate of registration as an FME 
under the FME Regulations under one of the below categories:
• authorised FME
• registered FME (non-retail)
• registered FME (retail).
Note: The above data is as on 31 December 2023.
Source: IFSCA Bulletin Oct-Dec 2023 dated 6 February 2024
USD 7.08 billion USD 3.07 billion
95
funds registered with 
the IFSCA
83
FMEs registered with 
the IFSCA
Total commitments raised – Total funds raised –
USD 2.93 billion
Total funds invested –

[PAGE 13]
The FME Regulations classify FMEs into three categories. Depending on the type of licence obtained, the FME will 
be allowed to launch relevant schemes and undertake activities as described below.
Type of activity or scheme Authorised FME Registered FME 
(non-retail)
Registered FME 
(retail)
Venture capital (VC) schemes (including 
angel schemes) – Category I AIF
   
Restricted 
schemes 
Category I AIF   
Category II AIF
Category III AIF
Retail schemes    
Portfolio management services    
Exchange traded funds 
Special situation funds    
Investment 
trusts
Public issue of units   
Private placement of units   
Regulatory framework 
13   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 14]
Key regulatory aspects of various categories of FMEs
Particulars
Categories of FME
Authorised FME Registered FME (non-
retail)
Registered FME (retail)
Legal structure 
Company, limited 
liability partnership 
(LLP) or branch thereof
Company, LLP or branch 
thereof
Company or branch
Minimum net worth
USD 75,000 USD 500,000 USD 1,000,000
In case the FME sets up a branch, the minimum net worth requirements may be 
maintained at the parent level.
Infrastructure 
requirements
• Adequate office space, equipment and communication facilities are required.
• The infrastructure is to be commensurate with the size of operations.
• The office should be dedicated, secured and accessible only by authorised 
person(s) of the FME.
Minimum no. of 
principal officer(s) or key 
managerial personnel 
(KMP)
1 principal officer • 1 principal officer
• 1 KMP (compliance 
and risk manager)
• 1 principal officer
• 1 KMP (compliance 
and risk manager)
• 1 KMP (responsible for 
fund management)
Experience and 
professional qualification 
of the principal officer(s) 
or KMP
The personnel should have the prescribed professional qualification and 
experience of at least five years in related activities in the securities market or 
financial products. 
14   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 15]
Schemes for fund management in the IFSC
VC schemes
Restricted 
schemes
Retail schemes
Category I AIF
• Schemes that invest primarily in start-ups and early stage venture capital undertakings 
involved in new products, services, technology, etc. It also includes angel funds.
• Offered only on a private placement basis (including accredited investors) and shall 
have less than 50 investors.
• ‘Green channel’ for subscription by investors. 
• Ease in launch of schemes by the FME subject to submission of certain  
documentation to the IFSCA.
Categories I, II or III AIF
• Offered only to relevant persons on a private placement basis (including accredited 
investors) and shall have less than 1,000 investors.
• ‘Green channel’ if subscription is to be raised only from accredited investors. 
• Ease in launch of schemes by the FME subject to submission of certain  
documentation to the IFSCA.
• Schemes offered to all investors, including retail investors.
• Schemes can be: (a) filed with the regulator only after approval from fiduciaries; 
and (b) launched only after incorporating all comments from the regulator in the 
offer document.
15   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 16]
16   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Key regulatory aspects for schemes in the IFSC
Particulars Category I AIFs Category II AIFs Category III AIFs
Legal structure Company, LLP or trust
Minimum investment 
by an investor (other 
than employees and 
directors) in the AIF 
• Accredited investors 
– none
• In case of VC scheme 
- USD 250,000
• In case of angel 
scheme – USD 40,000
• Others – USD 150,000
• Accredited investors 
– none
• Others – USD 150,000
• Accredited investors 
– none
• Others – USD 150,000
Minimum tenure Minimum – 3 years (in 
case of VC scheme) or 1 
year (in other cases)
Minimum (close ended) 
– 1 year
Minimum (close ended) 
– 1 year
Minimum corpus 
requirement
Minimum – USD 5 
million (in case of angel 
funds, USD 1 million)
Minimum – USD 5 
million
Minimum – USD 5 
million
Borrowing Permissible subject to, amongst others:
• disclosure of maximum leverage and methodology for calculation of leverage in 
the placement memorandum; and
• deviations to be subject to consent of two-thirds of investors by value. 
Appointment of 
custodian
Mandatory if fund size 
exceeds USD 70 Million
• Open ended – 
mandatory
• Close ended – 
mandatory if fund 
size exceeds USD 70 
million
• Open ended – 
mandatory
• Close ended – 
mandatory if fund 
size exceeds USD 70 
million
Skin-in-the-game 
contribution from FME 
or its associate entity
Close-ended scheme (also in a VC scheme):
• If targeted corpus (TC) < USD 30 million: at least 2.5% and not exceeding 10% 
of the TC; or
• If TC > USD 30 million: at least USD 750,000 and not exceeding 10% of the TC
Open-ended scheme:
• If TC < USD 30 million: at least 5% and not exceeding 10% of the TC; or
• If TC > USD 30 million: at least USD 15,00,000 but not exceeding 10% of the TC
Angel scheme:
At least 2.5% of the investment size or USD 20,000, whichever is less, in each 
segregated portfolio
Contribution can be waived, subject to the fulfilment of conditions.


[PAGE 17]
17   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Key direct taxation aspects for FMEs and schemes in the IFSC
Restricted schemes (Category I and II AIFs)
Manager or sponsor in the IFSC
Goods and Services Tax (GST)
• Tax pass-through status for AIFs (except for 
business income).
• Investors taxed as if investments directly 
made by them.
• Investors can claim losses (subject to the 
condition of holding units for 12 months).
• To the extent beneficial, investors can avail 
benefit under applicable tax treaties.
• Income from offshore investments earned by 
offshore investors through AIF not taxable in 
India.
• Permanent account number (PAN) and 
income-tax return filing exemption, subject to 
conditions.
• 100% corporate tax deduction for 10 
consecutive years out of a block of 15 years 
from registration with the IFSCA.
• Minimum alternate tax (MAT) or alternative 
minimum tax rate reduced to 9%. However, 
companies opting for the new tax regime to 
be exempt from MAT.
• Dividend income:
 – Dividend distributed by the IFSC unit is not 
subject to dividend distribution tax
 – Dividend received in the hands of non-
resident shareholders to be taxable at 10% 
plus applicable surcharge and cess
 – Dividend received in the hands of the 
resident shareholders taxable at applicable 
rates (subject to deduction under section 
80M of the Income-tax Act, 1961 [the Act])
• Supplies to special economic zone (SEZ) units for authorised operations qualify as zero-rated 
supplies, and hence are tax free.
• Management services, trusteeship services and services from third-party service providers, such as 
custodians, qualify as zero-rated supply and are not subject to GST.
• To avail the zero-rating benefit, funds are required to obtain GST registration (as an SEZ unit) and 
undertake the requisite compliances, including filing of GST return.
*All units of Category III AIF to be held by non-
residents other than units held by the sponsor or 
manager. Subsequent changes in residential status 
of the unitholder will not affect this clause, provided 
the number of units held does not exceed 5% of 
the total units issued.
Restricted schemes (Category III AIFs*)
• Category III AIF in the IFSC to be eligible for 
foreign portfolio investors (FPI) licence.
• Tax paid at fund level; FPI tax principles to 
apply and investment treated as a ‘capital 
asset’.
• Exemption from tax on income from:
 – Transfer of securities (other than shares of 
Indian company), such as debt, derivatives, 
offshore securities, mutual funds and 
securities listed on the IFSC.
 – Securities issued by a non-resident 
(without a permanent establishment) with 
no accrual of income in India.
 – Securitisation trust chargeable under the 
head ‘Profits and gains from business or 
profession’.
• Investors exempt from tax on any income 
received from the Category III AIF or on 
transfer of its units.
• PAN and income-tax return filing exemption, 
subject to conditions.
• Overseas transfer provisions not applicable – 
if fund registered as FPI
Key indirect taxation aspects for FMEs and schemes in the IFSC

[PAGE 18]
Use cases for restricted schemes (AIFs) in the IFSC
 Key considerations:
•
 A fund can have participation 
of NRIs, OCIs and RIs of up 
to 100% subject to certain 
conditions*
•
 Investments in listed 
securities via FPI r
oute
•
 Gains on debt or derivatives – 
exempt fr
om tax
•
 Gains on equity – domestic 
tax rates
•
 Inter
est and dividend – 10% 
(no surcharge and cess)
Use case I: Inbound investment through Category III AIF 
Offshore investors
Category 
III AIF in IFSC
Outside 
India
IFSC 
manager
Invesment manager (IM) 
agreement
IM fees
IFSC
India
FPI
Debt/derivatives Listed portfolio companies
*As per SEBI press release dated 30 April 2024 and IFSCA circular dated 2 May 2024
18   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 19]
Use case II: Outbound investment through Category III AIF
 Key considerations:
•
 Resident investors can 
invest subject to outbound 
investment and liberalised 
r
emittance scheme (LRS) 
norms
•
 Overseas portfolio investment 
(OPI) permitted up to 50% of 
net worth
•
 No specific tax r
egime for 
outbound investments
Category
 
III AIF in IFSC
Outside 
India
IFSC 
manager
IM agreement
IM fees
IFSC
India
Resident investors
Offshore portfolio 
companies
19   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 20]
Key considerations:
•
 NRI or OCI investor 
diversification conditions 
under FPI r
egulations not 
applicable if FPI invests only 
in mutual fund schemes in 
India
•
 Capital gains on transfer of 
mutual fund units exempt 
fr
om tax 
•
 Investors in Category III AIF 
in IFSC not subject to tax on 
distribution and r
edemption
•
 No r
estriction on repatriation
Offshore investors
Category 
III AIF in IFSC
Mutual 
funds
Outside 
India
IFSC 
manager
IM agreement
IM fees
IFSC
India
FPI
Permissible 
investments
20   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Use case III: Fund of fund structure for NRIs

[PAGE 21]
21   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Key regulatory aspects of PMS in the IFSC
Portfolio management services (PMS) 
in the IFSC
To build a comprehensive fund management industry ecosystem in the IFSC, registered FMEs can offer their clients 
PMS as long as they are compliant under the FME Regulations to undertake the activity.
Particulars Requirements
Permitted activities Dealing with client’s funds (discretionary or non-discretionary PMS) and 
advisory services
Permitted investments • Securities and financial products in the IFSC, India or foreign 
jurisdiction(s) 
• Discretionary PMS: securities listed, to be listed or traded on the 
stock exchanges, money market instruments, units of investment 
scheme and other financial products specified by the IFSCA
Minimum ticket size USD 150,000 (no threshold for accredited investors)
Permitted clients of portfolio 
manager
• Person resident outside India
• Non-resident Indian
• Individual or non-individual resident in India eligible to invest offshore 
as per prescribed exchange control regulations
• Multi-family offices
Investment restrictions • Investment in derivatives not permitted unless express consent 
obtained from its clients
• Speculative transactions not permitted
• FME to ordinarily purchase or sell securities separately for each 
portfolio management client
• Segregation of client’s funds and portfolios from FME’s funds and 
portfolios, respectively
Key tax aspects of PMS in the IFSC
• Taxation for portfolio manager in the IFSC is similar to taxation aspects discussed above for a manager or 
sponsor in the IFSC.
• Tax exemption is available for non-resident clients with a bank account in the IFSC on any income from offshore 
investments.
• In case of a resident client, each transaction is taxed in their hands at applicable rates.


[PAGE 22]
Use cases for PMS in the IFSC
Offshore investors
Outside 
India
IFSC portfolio 
manager
Indian manager Indian portfolio 
companies
IFSC
PMS Fees
India
 Key considerations:
•
 Non-r
esident investors to 
invest in India subject to 
exchange control regulations 
•
 Offshor
e entities and clients 
subject to tax in India 
•
 Safe harbour pr
ovisions (i.e. 
section 9A of the Act) to be 
evaluated
22   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Use case I: PMS for inbound investment

[PAGE 23]
Use case II: PMS for outbound investment
Resident investors
IFSC portfolio 
manager
Indian manager
Offshore portfolio 
companies
IFSC
PMS Fees
 Key considerations:
•
 In case of r
esident investors, 
only resident individuals 
under LRS and listed entities 
permitted to invest
•
 Resident investors subject to 
tax in India at applicable rates
23   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 24]
24   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Key regulatory aspects of an FIF in the IFSC
 Particulars Requirements
Legal structure Set up as a company, LLP or contributory trust
Type of scheme Open or close ended
Corpus A minimum corpus of USD 10 million within a period of three years from 
the date of obtaining a certificate of registration
Personnel requirement A minimum of one principal officer or KMP with prescribed professional 
qualification, and at least five years of experience in related activities in 
the securities market or financial products
Investment in an FIF by residents • Investment in an FIF set up by residents subject to Foreign 
Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022
• Total OPI capped at 50% of net worth
• Unlisted Indian company, LLP or firms eligible to make investments 
under the OPI route
Family investment fund in the IFSC
Family offices are increasingly gaining traction amongst wealthy families and high-net worth individuals (HNIs) to 
manage and preserve their wealth. They also offer substantial capital for investments globally.
As a forward-looking measure, the FME Regulations provide a regulatory framework which allows wealthy families 
and HNIs to set up their own family office in the form of a family investment fund (FIF) in the IFSC.
An FIF is a self-managed fund pooling money only from a single family.*
*   A single family is defined as: 
• a group of individuals who are lineal descendants of a common ancestor, including their spouses (including widows and widowers, 
whether remarried or not) and children (including stepchildren, adopted children and ex nuptial children); or
• sole proprietorship firms, partnership firms, companies, LLPs, trusts or body corporates in which the individual or a group of 
individuals of a single family exercises control, and directly or indirectly holds at least 90% of economic interest.

[PAGE 25]
Permissible 
investments
Family office 
(Eligible entity)
IFSC
India
Obtaining 
authorised FME 
licence
100%
FIF
 Key considerations:
•
 Contribution thr
ough LRS up 
to the limit of USD 250,000 
per person per annum 
•
 Contribution up to 50% of net 
worth of eligible entities
•
 Portfolio investments 
permissible 
•
 Ability to invest in physical 
assets such as art and bullion
•
 Same time zone as home 
jurisdiction
•
 Administrative ease and cost 
efficiency
Use case for an FIF in the IFSC
25   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC

[PAGE 26]
26   |    PwC  Asset and wealth management in the IFSC in GIFT IFSC
Currency for conduct of business
Maintenance of books of accounts
Submission of report or information 
Other key operational points for FMEs 
and funds
All transactions undertaken by the unit in the IFSC shall be in a freely convertible foreign currency only. However, the 
unit in the IFSC may defray its administrative expenses in Indian rupees by maintaining a separate Special Non-
Resident Rupee Account.
The books of accounts and their financial information shall be maintained in any freely convertible currency. Parallel 
accounts in INR shall be maintained for other compliance purposes.
FMEs shall be required to furnish audited annual financial statements, an abridged summary, quarterly reports and 
certain event-based reports to the IFSCA.
Funds are required to furnish information for remittances outside India in Form 15CD on a quarterly basis within 15 
days from the end of each quarter.

[PAGE 27]
Notes

[PAGE 28]
pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0 (Public)
In this document, PwC refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN 
: U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a 
separate legal entity.
This document does not constitute professional advice. The information in this document has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any 
opinions or estimates contained in this document represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of 
this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, 
based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of 
the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2024 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. 
HS/April 2024 - M&C 36764
About PwC
At PwC, our purpose is to build trust in society and solve important 
problems. We’re a network of firms in 151 countries with over 360,000 people 
who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, advisory and tax 
services. Find out more and tell us what matters to you by visiting us at  
www.pwc.com.
PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms,  
each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/
structure for further details.
© 2024 PwC. All rights reserved.
Contact us at
in_gift_support@pwc.com
Scan for insights
