SOURCE: 082_EY__GRCTCs India Advantage.pdf
PAGES: 20
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
Global/Regional 
Corporate Treasury 
Centres and the India 
advantage
June 2025


[PAGE 3]
Designing the GRCTC: Key structural 
considerations
08
Spotlight on India: Gujarat International 
Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) and International 
Financial Services Centre (IFSC)
11
Global benchmarks: Established GRCTC hubs 10
Revisions to the GRCTC framework 13
Understanding Global/Regional Corporate 
Treasury Centres : Purpose, functions and 
structure
06
Why GRCTCs matter: Business drivers 
and benefits
07
Selecting the right location: Factors 
influencing the GRCTC setup 09
IFSCA’s role: Regulatory steps to 
support the growth of GRCTC 12
Contents
Table of
Conclusion: The strategic value of GRCTCs 
in today’s global landscape 16
08
 06
10
13 09

[PAGE 4]
Hemal Shah
Partner , Risk Consulting, 
EY India
Foreword
The Indian economy is poised at a strategic inflection point, where the intent of the 
government and the regulators is aligned to create a strategic force in the development 
of the financial market ecosystem. GIFT City and International Financial Services 
Centres Authority (IFSCA) are pivotal in positioning India as a front-runner and the 
destination of choice for setting up Global or Regional Treasury and Commodity Trading 
Centres (GRCTCs). In the past, GRCTCs have played a pivotal role in the development 
of regional and international trade. The Government of India and regulators are 
blending this proposition with an adequate level of incentives and future-state drivers 
to encourage Indian and global companies to strategically evaluate GIFT City as the 
preferred choice for their treasury and commodity trading activities. Along with 
financial incentives, the broader ecosystem of financial institutions, market participants, 
brokers, fund managers, insurance and rating agencies, foreign banks and asset 
managers have seen a rapid increase in interest in setting up initiatives.
At EY , we see this as a strong opportunity and future-oriented reform that could 
transform not just the region but also the way international business and trade can 
grow and evolve.
I would strongly encourage a solution-oriented approach and dialogue to evaluate its 
feasibility and future form to suit your respective business models.

[PAGE 5]
Executive
summary
Amid growing global volatility, multinational corporations are re-evaluating how they manage 
liquidity, financial risk and commodity trading. Global / Regional Corporate Treasury Centres  
(GRCTCs) are emerging as a strategic solution to these challenges. Acting as internal hubs 
for financing and commodity-related activities, GRCTCs enable companies to streamline 
operations, enhance transparency, and optimize financial and trading decisions across 
jurisdictions.
This white paper explores the purpose, functions and structure of GRCTCs. It outlines how 
these centers centralize cash management, intercompany lending, financial consulting, and 
commodity trading. By standardizing policies and offering better visibility of group-wide 
liquidity, GRCTCs help companies manage risk more effectively and negotiate better terms 
with financial counterparties. Some GRCTCs also extend their scope to operational areas such 
as procurement, logistics, and settlements, enabling end-to-end trade oversight.
The paper identifies the key benefits of GRCTCs, from operational efficiency and cost 
optimization to improved access to funding, technology integration, and favorable tax 
treatment. It also highlights how location strategy plays a pivotal role, with companies 
factoring in time zone alignment, regulatory ease, cost of setup, and proximity to vendors and 
financial partners.
Global benchmarks such as Singapore, Hong Kong, Dubai and European hubs have long 
offered attractive environments for GRCTC setups. However , emerging locations like 
Shanghai, Kuala Lumpur , Bangkok—and notably, India’s Gujarat International Finance Tec-
City (GIFT City)—are increasingly gaining traction due to their lower costs and expanding 
incentives.
The paper takes a closer look at India’s regulatory efforts to position GIFT City as a 
destination for GRCTCs. It discusses the International Financial Services Centres Authority’s 
(IFSCA) frameworks and recent revisions to clarify permissible activities and enhance the 
ease of establishing Global/Regional Corporate Treasury Centres (GRCTCs). The steps include 
a 2024 consultation paper to address ambiguities, and a revised circular issued in April 2025 
that reflects stakeholder feedback.
With supportive regulations, growing infrastructure, and increasing industry interest, India’s 
GIFT City is poised to join the ranks of established GRCTC hubs—offering multinational 
corporations an attractive new base for global treasury and commodity trading operations.

[PAGE 6]
The new nerve centers of global finance: GRCTCs and the India advantage
6
1
Understanding Global/Regional 
Corporate Treasury Centres : 
Purpose, functions and structure 
6
A GRCTC operates as an internal banking and commodity 
trading hub for multinational companies with operations 
across geographies. Its primary goal is to centralize 
fund management, facilitate commodity trades, manage 
trading costs, and enhance financial resource utilization 
across the group. 
A GRCTC typically manages group-level financing and 
intercompany lending, consolidates cash and liquidity, 
and delivers financial consulting and risk management 
support to group entities. It serves as a centralized hub for 
financial, trading, and hedging activities, enabling tighter 
control, better risk mitigation, and improved strategic 
alignment across the organization. By standardizing 
processes and policies, it helps ensure transparency, 
consistency and cost efficiency. Centralizing these 
functions also enhances the group’s ability to negotiate 
favorable terms with banks and financial counterparties. 
In some cases, the GRCTC extends its scope to cover 
operational areas such as commodity procurement and 
marketing, allowing for comprehensive oversight of 
trade-related aspects including financing, logistics, freight, 
settlements and accounting. 
1.1 What is a GRCTC and how does it work?
1.2 Key functions of a GRCTC

[PAGE 7]
7
2
Why GRCTCs matter: Business 
drivers and benefits
7
CFOs, treasurers and trading heads have been 
experiencing stress due to rising geopolitical uncertainties. 
From challenges such as volatility in foreign exchange and 
commodity prices, to struggling with maintaining robust 
liquidity and cash flow, many are turning their attention 
to improving and aligning their treasury and commodity 
trading strategies. 
The key benefits of establishing a successful GRCTC are:
 ■ Group-wide transaction netting and cash visibility: 
Organizations face transparency issues while managing 
cash in multiple currencies with various banking 
partners. Consolidation enhances the grasp of global 
liquidity positions, increasing the efficiency and 
coordination of their payment processes. Companies can 
also net their transactional exposures, offsetting inflows 
and outflows across various entities for respective 
currency pairs. This approach minimizes the need for 
multiple transactions, enabling a single, simplified 
transaction between entities and the GRCTC. This not 
only reduces operational complexity but also mitigates 
exposure to risks associated with multi-entity cash flows.
 ■ Corporate tax incentives: One of the factors influencing 
the decision to establish GRCTCs in specific regions 
is the availability of tax incentives provided by local 
governments. These include benefits such as reduced 
corporate tax rates, tax holidays, and exemptions on 
specific financial transactions. Moreover , customs duty 
exemption on goods and services is also an incentive 
that certain regions provide. These incentives not only 
make the region financially appealing but also create a 
competitive advantage for companies operating within 
those jurisdictions.
 ■ Proximity and access to financial and trading 
counterparts, and market participants: Securing 
financing from multiple banks in these regions is 
more cost-effective for companies. Competitive rates 
attract companies looking to obtaining working capital 
2.1 Addressing global volatility through 
centralized treasury functions
2.2 Strategic benefits 
funding, capex loans and intercompany financing, etc. 
A corporation can leverage its consolidated financial 
position to negotiate more favorable terms with banks. 
These credit terms can also be improved, which can be 
further extended to group entities. Companies also tend 
to transact with related physical and financial traders to 
optimize trade P&L (profit and loss).
 ■ Ease of doing business: A common benefit observed 
by multinational corporations across preferred 
locations for GRCTC setup is the ease of doing business 
and availability of various market participants. The 
permissibility of various business activities that GRCTCs 
are required to undertake proves to be a significant 
incentive. Banks (both local and international) and 
traders (both physical and financial) offer flexibility while 
dealing and transacting, which acts as a big contributor .
 ■ Efficient commodity trading and hedging: The 
consolidation of commodity trading and hedging 
operations is vital for companies in the commodity 
sectors because of the differing commodity trends in 
various regions. The broad access to global markets, 
commodity exchanges and counterparties provided by 
international financial hubs makes executing commodity 
transactions from these hubs highly appealing and 
cost-effective. Additionally, access to international trade 
routes and logistic partners also helps in reducing the 
secondary costs.
 ■ Adoption of Treasury and Commodity Trading and 
Risk Management (CTRM) technology: Treasury 
Management Systems (TMS), data analytics, and 
digitalization have refined corporation’s technology 
infrastructure. This is instrumental in centralizing 
treasury operations and integrating local entities with 
the corporation. There are multiple options of TMS 
and CTRM providers available to organizations that 
can support in consolidating their treasury and trading 
activities.
 ■ Operational efficiency and cost optimization: 
Corporations view operational effectiveness as another 
key motivator . GRCTCs offer significant operational 
benefits, such as reduced costs and streamlined 
processes. Companies can optimize resource allocation, 
requiring fewer personnel and thereby lowering human 
resource expenses. Companies can also reduce office 
space costs such as rental expenses.

[PAGE 8]
The new nerve centers of global finance: GRCTCs and the India advantage
8
3
Designing the GRCTC: Key 
structural considerations 
All payments/remittances 
to and from customers/
vendors are undertaken by 
the GRCTC and goods are 
shipped to parent under 
Bill-to Ship-to model
Credit terms, working capital, 
bank led borrowing and inter-
company lending, consolidation 
of funds, investments, hedging 
and derivative trading are all 
activities managed by the GRCTC
Participating company invoices 
GRCTC in its functional currency, 
thereby eliminating any currency 
risk for the participating entity
Net open foreign 
exchange positions are 
hedged by the GRCTC 
with banks
GRCTC undertakes commodity 
risk, which hedges the risk on 
behalf of the group entities 
through inter-co contracts
GRCTC monitors global bank 
accounts centrally. Funding 
of entities and drawing down 
of limits where required is 
undertaken by the GRCTC
Physical and financial 
commodity trade 
contracts are settled 
with respective 
counterparties
1 5
42
3 7
6
1
1
2
3
3
4 4
5
66
7 7
Global/Regional Corporate Treasury 
Centre (GRCTC) 
(Absorbs the risks associated with 
Currency, Liquidity, Working Capital, 
Commodity and Freight)
Participating company 
(Transfers currency, commodity 
risk, long/short-term working 
capital requirement,  
hedging/ derivatives)
Group entities 
in  India
Group entities 
outside  India Vendors / trading 
partners
Pays on behalf 
of group
GRCTC re-invoices 
to customers
Customers / 
trading partners
Indian banks/ 
counterparts
Foreign banks/ 
counterparts
Invoices GRCTC 
in its functional 
currency
Borrowing, lending, 
investment, trading 
and hedging
Holding, cash 
pooling, financing, 
investment 
management, etc.
GRCTC pays to 
participating 
company
Inter-co activities
Banking activities
Reinvoicing
Payment by GRCTC
Key value drivers
1. Centralization of trading and 
financial counterparts
2. Integrated risk management
3. Regulatory compliance
4. Relationship management
5. Funding and capital structure
6. Selection of select commodity 
trading partners/vendors
1
Goods shipped to parent under Bill-to Ship-to model

[PAGE 9]
9
4
Selecting the right location: Factors 
influencing the GRCTC setup
CFOs, treasurers and trading heads face a critical 
choice when establishing GRCTCs, which is selecting 
the optimal location. Some of the factors influencing 
their decisions are: 
1. Time zone: Time zone alignment with the 
corporation’s headquarters is crucial as it facilitates 
smoother transactions between the main office and 
the GRCTC. 
2. Proximity to vendors: Another important 
consideration is the GRCTC’s proximity to the 
company’s vendors and suppliers. For instance, 
a company that imports predominantly from the 
Far East may opt to setup a GRCTC in East Asia 
to maintain stronger ties with these business 
partners. Proximity to physical vendors and financial 
counterparts helps optimize the overall cost of 
supply chain financing. 
3. Conducive to trade (direct and merchant trading) 
and related financing: Selecting an optimal location 
for establishing a GRCTC would significantly bolster 
trade operations (both direct and merchant trading) 
and augment associated financing capabilities.
4.1 Key decision-making criteria
4. Setup costs: The cost of establishing a GRCTC 
is influenced by the chosen location, with more 
economically and commercially developed areas typically 
incurring higher setup expenses.
5. Proximity of banking counterparts for borrowing, 
hedging and investments: The presence of their 
relationship banks in regions with GRCTC setup is critical. 
For example, an organization dealing with the Indian 
branch of a Singapore-based multinational bank would 
receive similar or better treatment, flexibility and ease 
of doing business with the Singapore branch or head 
office by setting up a GRCTC in Singapore and running its 
treasury and trading activities there.
6. Regulatory environment: A favorable regulatory 
environment minimizes hurdles, allowing for quicker 
decision-making and streamlined processes. Additionally, 
reduced regulatory complexities enhance the ability to 
manage financial risks effectively and optimize capital 
allocation.

[PAGE 10]
The new nerve centers of global finance: GRCTCs and the India advantage
10
5
Global benchmarks: 
Established GRCTC hubs
Locations such as Singapore and Hong Kong in Asia, and 
Dubai in the Middle East are preferred choices for GRCTCs 
due to their ease-of-doing-business environment, existing 
tax treaty network with numerous countries, cheaper 
running costs, and proximity to Far East vendors and 
suppliers.
Western multinational corporations prefer Europe, with 
popular locations such the Netherlands, Ireland and the 
UK being prime locations for setting up GRCTCs due to 
their geographical accessibility, well-established economic 
infrastructure, and relaxed regulations of countries in the 
European zone.
Other regions in Asia that are enhancing their GRCTC 
businesses
Over the past decade, cities like Shanghai, Kuala 
Lumpur , Bangkok, and more recently some of the Indian 
cities have gained recognition as viable locations for 
GRCTCs. Organizations are primarily attracted due to 
the comparatively cheaper operational and setup costs 
compared to the established locations. Moreover , these 
up-and-coming locations have also started offering similar 
benefits and incentives to GRCTCs.


[PAGE 11]
11
6
Spotlight on India: Gujarat 
International Finance Tec-City 
(GIFT City) and International 
Financial Services Centre (IFSC)1
GIFT City was set up as a smart city with a clear goal, i.e., 
to offer a wide range of financial services—like banking, 
insurance, capital markets and asset management—
through an International Financial Services Centre 
(IFSC). These services are available to those who want to 
transact in foreign currencies instead of Indian Rupees.
6.1 GIFT City’s strategic intent
GIFT City has become a hub for various key sectors, including:
1. Aircraft and ship leasing
2. Banking services
3. Capital markets
4. Finance companies
5. Business, Accounting, Taxation, and Financial (BATF) 
services
6. Bullion exchange
7. Financial technology (FinTech)
8. Foreign universities
6.2 Sectors with a growing presence in GIFT City
There has also been keen interest in the concept of 
establishing a GRCTC within GIFT City, with IFSC offering 
tax benefits and regulatory concessions encouraging Indian 
and global corporations to setup presence there, subject 
to the eligibility criteria for setting up finance companies 
within the city. 
6.3 GIFT City’s relevance for GRCTCs
1IFSCA circular: Framework for undertaking Global/Regional Corporate 
Treasury Centres Activities by Finance Company/Finance Unit in IFSC (25th 
June 2021)


[PAGE 12]
The new nerve centers of global finance: GRCTCs and the India advantage
12
7
IFSCA’s role: Regulatory steps to 
support the growth of GRCTC
In support of the GRCTC initiative, the IFSC unveiled 
a comprehensive framework titled, “Global/Regional 
Corporate Treasury Centre Activities by Finance Company/
Finance Unit,2”  in June 2021, listing the permissible 
treasury activities and services for FX risk management, 
cash management, fundraising, intra-group financing and 
trading in commodity derivatives. 
1. Due to uncertainty on whether banks in GIFT City 
provided all treasury related services and solutions or 
the lack of a precise definition for a reinvoicing center , 
this presented some transparency issues with the 
establishment of a GRCTC business model. To address 
this, the IFSCA issued a consultation paper on 12 
September 2024  detailing each allowed activity and 
outlining the specific methods for conducting them.
2. Constitution of an Expert Committee on positioning 
GIFT IFSC as a Global Commodity Trading Hub:  
Given India’s status as a major consumer market for 
various commodities, the IFSCA initiated the formation 
of an “Expert Committee on positioning GIFT IFSC as 
a Global Commodity Trading Hub”4 in May 2022. The 
committee was primarily setup to explore the potential 
advantages of GIFT City as a global commodity trading 
hub, including activities such as physical trading, 
merchanting trade, and both OTC and exchange-
traded derivatives.
7.2 Consultation paper on proposed revised 
framework for undertaking Global/Regional 
Corporate Treasury Centres (GRCTC) activities 
by Finance Company/Unit in IFSC3: 
2IFSCA circular: Framework for undertaking Global/Regional Corporate Treasury Centres Activities by Finance Company/Finance Unit in IFSC (25th June 2021)
3Consultation paper on proposed revised ‘Framework for undertaking Global/Regional 
Corporate Treasury Centres activities by Finance Company/Unit in IFSC’ 
September 12, 2024
4Constitution of an Expert Committee on positioning GIFT IFSC as Global Commodity Trading Hub

[PAGE 13]
13
8 Revisions to the GRCTC framework
Considering the valuable feedback and insights received from the various stakeholders on the consultation paper released 
in September 2024, the IFSCA implemented a series of incremental updates and modifications to the existing guidelines. 
This was officially introduced in the form of a circular dated 5 April 2025 titled “Framework for Finance Company/Finance 
Unit undertaking the activity of Global/Regional Corporate Treasury Centers”5  These revisions aimed to enhance the 
current framework governing the establishment and operation of GRCTCs.
To facilitate a better understanding of these changes, a detailed comparison between the previous and revised guidelines 
for setting up GRCTCs in the GIFT City is provided below. This comparison highlights the enhancements and revisions made 
to each permissible activity that a GRCTC can undertake, ensuring that stakeholders remain well-informed about the new 
framework and its implications.
8.1 Recent developments
S.No Activity Guidelines (25 June 2021) Enhancements to guidelines (5 April 2025)
1 Borrowing
►GRCTC can borrow by 
collateralizing inventory held 
by its Group Entities
►Inclusion of the permissibility to borrow in the form of 
inter-co deposits with tenor, cost, among others, to be 
determined by GRCTC or the service participants
2 Credit 
arrangements
A GRCTC may undertake the  
arranging of credit facilities
Includes any form of lending activities, providing credit 
guarantees, performance bonds or any other credit 
facility
3
Undertaking 
derivative 
transactions 
(OTC and 
exchange traded)
A GRCTC may transact in 
foreign currency rupee 
derivatives only where the 
foreign currency leg is in a 
freely convertible currency.
 ■ OTC and exchange traded derivative transactions 
permitted in IFSC can be done with counterparties 
within and outside GIFT city
 ■ Non-permitted transactions in GIFT city can be 
done with counterparties outside GIFT city
 ■ GRCTC can undertake derivatives to hedge risk 
on its own as well as on behalf of its service 
recipients
4 Factoring and 
forfaiting
Undertake factoring and 
forfaiting activities for its 
Group Entities
Before undertaking these activities, the GRCTC must 
register itself with Registration of Factors Registration 
of Assignment of Receivables
5IFSCA circular: Framework for Finance Company/Finance Unit undertaking the activity of Global/ Regional Corporate Treasury Centres (5 April 2025)

[PAGE 14]
The new nerve centers of global finance: GRCTCs and the India advantage
14
5
Acting as a  
re-invoicing 
center
►Acting as a re-invoicing center 
for Group Entities as long as 
such re-invoicing is undertaken 
for the limited purpose of 
ensuring that liquidity flows 
and financial risk can be 
aggregated and netted
►Re-invoicing is permitted for financing the purchase 
and sale of goods on behalf of the service recipients, 
provided that GRCTC does not take physical 
possession of such goods and one of the parties to 
each re-invoicing transaction is a service recipient
6 Liquidity 
management
Managing and optimizing multi-
currency cash management 
and liquidity management, 
including cash forecasting, 
arranging credit facilities and 
cash pooling
 ■ Pooling of funds, with header / master account 
to be held by IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) along 
with its conceptualization and development and 
negotiation with IBU
 ■ Processing payments to vendors or suppliers on 
behalf of service recipients
 ■ Netting and concentration of cash to optimize 
cashflows, working capital, interest and tax 
payments
7
Maintaining 
financial 
relationships
 ■ Managing relationships with banks, credit rating 
agencies (CRAs) and other counterparts
 ■ ► Undertaking valuation and accounting activities
 ■ ► Undertake covenant testing
 ■ ► Maintaining transaction history and audit trail
 ■ ► Liaise with external and internal auditors
8
Advisory service 
related to 
financial 
management, 
including 
financial risk 
management  
Advising or providing services 
in relation to the management 
of interest rate risk, foreign 
exchange risk, liquidity risk, 
credit risk, commodity risk or 
and any other financial risk of 
the Group Entities;
►Specified activities of providing advice relating to 
financial management includes:
 ■ Cashflow forecasting
 ■ Investment appraisal
 ■ Tax planning 
 ■ Operational risk management
 ■ Financial risk management including  
Identifying natural hedges and offsets within group 
entities
 ■ Interest rate risk management
 ■ FX, Commodity risk management
 ■ Advising on hedging strategies
 ■ Monitoring financial risk positions
9
Advisory service 
related to 
funding and 
capital market 
activities
►Services include:
 ■ Capital structure optimization
 ■ Investment management
 ■ Liquidity Management 
 ■ Monitoring and managing credit ratings
 ■ Portfolio management
 ■ Managing funding from the sale of receivables or 
payables with external parties


[PAGE 15]
15
15
To drive greater business participation, further clarification 
and simplification of permissible treasury activities 
in GIFT City are necessary. These updates would help 
organizations evaluate how to set up full-fledged trading 
entities and treasury operations. Key drivers include:
1. Procurement, export and trading activities: The 
revised guidelines (dated 5 April 2025) offer clarity on 
the GRCTC’s role as a re-invoicing center . GRCTCs can 
now facilitate the financing of goods bought and sold 
on behalf of service recipients, supporting operations 
under a Bill-to-Ship-to model—subject to adherence 
with shipping laws and regulations.
2. Guidelines on commodity trading: A lack of clear 
regulations for OTC and physical commodity trading 
has restricted institutional investor participation. A 
formal regulatory framework will help integrate India 
more deeply into global trade.
3.  Cash pooling activities: While cash pooling is 
permitted by the IFSCA, cash pooling guidelines can 
be enhanced to explicitly cover physical, notional, and 
cross-currency pooling structures.
4.  Currency, commodity and interest rate hedging: The 
revised guidelines (dated 5 April 2025) clarify that 
OTC derivatives can be transacted with both internal 
and external counterparties. However , comprehensive 
regulations for hedging commodities—both OTC and 
exchange-traded—are still required.
5. Freight hedging: Just as FX and commodity hedging, 
businesses have emphasized the importance of freight 
hedging to become a permitted activity, along with 
uniform guidelines. Currently, many global firms 
conduct this from hubs like Dubai and Singapore.
6.  Trade credit and freight insurance counterparts: 
Establishment of trade credit and freight insurance 
companies in GIFT City is immensely important 
for corporations involved in factoring and supply 
chain financing activities. The presence of these 
counterparts enhances GIFT City’s appeal as a 
comprehensive financial ecosystem. Due to tax 
incentives, trade credit and freight insurers may offer 
competitive premiums, making it more affordable for 
businesses to secure insurance for factoring deals.
7.  Trade finance solutions: GIFT City should offer a full 
suite of trade finance solutions—factoring, forfaiting, 
receivables finance, supply chain finance and invoice 
discounting—to strengthen its appeal.
*Subject to the fact that all applicable shipping laws and regulations 
will be strictly adhered to. Any conclusions or recommendations are 
contingent upon full compliance with relevant legal requirements.
The establishment of regional treasury centers in GIFT City 
may offer several key macroeconomic benefits, such as:
1. GDP growth: The proposed improvements aim to 
greatly enhance market performance and stimulate 
GDP growth, benefiting a variety of sectors. For 
example, the DMCC accounts for 7% of Dubai’s GDP6. 
Singapore has been ranked the largest FX trading 
center in the Asian time zone and the third largest 
globally after London and New York7.
2. Job creation and skill development: The 
establishment of GRCTCs in GIFT City is expected to 
generate a substantial number of jobs and demand 
for skilled labor . To compare, the DMCC has provided 
employment opportunities to nearly 100,000  
individuals8. Over 270 companies hold GTP status 
in Singapore, enjoying concessionary tax rates9. 
The upskilled workforce and the boost from the GTP 
initiative have made a tremendous contribution to 
Singapore’s ranking top in the World Bank’s Human 
Capital Index 202010.
3. Infrastructure: The high-quality infrastructure of GIFT 
City positions it to become one of the leading smart 
cities globally. In 2023, the DMCC has accommodated 
over 25,000 businesses 11.
4. Domestic and foreign investment inflows: GIFT City’s 
transparent and well-regulated market environment is 
likely to attract both foreign and domestic investors. 
Like Singapore and Dubai, which are known for their 
robust trading hubs, GIFT City could become a magnet 
for investments.
8.2 Factors driving greater business 
participation in GRCTCs at GIFT City
8.3 Key perceived macro-economic benefits
6DMCC_AnnualReport_2023.pdf
7Triennial Central Bank Survey - Foreign exchange turnover in April 2016 
8DMCC_AnnualReport_2023.pdf
9https://www.rikvin.com/taxation/singapore-global-trading-programme/
10Human Capital Index 2020
11DMCC_AnnualReport_2023.pdf

[PAGE 16]
The new nerve centers of global finance: GRCTCs and the India advantage
16
Conclusion: The strategic value of GRCTCs in 
today’s global landscape
GIFT City has the potential to be ranked among the world’s leading financial hubs for organizations looking to 
establish GRCTCs. Its infrastructure promotes a business-friendly environment that accelerates organization’s 
growth, international finance and foreign investment, signaling a promising future.
Businesses are eager to observe the forthcoming revisions and enhancements to the existing guidelines 
regarding GRCTC establishments. The IFSCA has shown considerable interest in further detailing the framework 
with greater transparency, visibility and strategic additions. These changes are anticipated to ease integration 
into GIFT City and enable the establishment of operational GRCTCs that enhance the efficiency of global 
treasury functions.
Given the diverse array of regulatory bodies such as the RBI, SEBI, and authorities overseeing FEMA, transfer 
pricing, income tax laws, as well as corporate legislation like the Companies Act, it is essential to establish a 
simple roadmap to converge and facilitate these regulations and transactions within the GIFT City jurisdiction.
This implementation will ensure that treasury activities can be performed smoothly and seamlessly. This 
alignment with existing regulations will not only enhance compliance but also promote transparency and 
efficiency, ultimately supporting the growth and stability in GIFT City.


[PAGE 17]
17


[PAGE 18]
The new nerve centers of global finance: GRCTCs and the India advantage
18
Acknowledge
Design
Sneha Arora
Editorial
Shweta Sharma
Contributors 
Hemal Shah, Partner , Financial Services Risk Management, EY India
Nushad Irani, Senior Manager , Financial Services Risk Management, EY India
Credits 
Jaiman Patel, Partner , International Tax and Financial Services, EY India 
Amit Gouri, Partner , Financial Services - Tax and Regulatory Services, EY India
Prateek Chaturvedi, Partner , Financial Services Risk Management, EY India
Jugal Kajaria, Director , Financial Services - Tax and Regulatory Services, EY India
Abhishek Anand, Senior Manager , Financial Services Risk Management, EY India

[PAGE 19]
Our offices
Ahmedabad
22nd Floor , B Wing, Privilon
Ambli BRT Road, Behind Iskcon Temple  
Off SG Highway 
Ahmedabad - 380 059
Tel: + 91 79 6608 3800
Bengaluru
12th & 13th Floor
“UB City”, Canberra Block
No.24 Vittal Mallya Road
Bengaluru - 560 001
Tel: + 91 80 6727 5000 
 
Ground & 1st Floor
# 11, ‘A’ wing
Divyasree Chambers
Langford Town
Bengaluru - 560 025
Tel: + 91 80 6727 5000
3rd & 4th Floor
MARKSQUARE
#61, St. Mark’s Road
Shantala Nagar
Bengaluru - 560 001
Tel: + 91 80 6727 5000
1st & 8th Floor , Tower A
Prestige Shantiniketan 
Mahadevapura Post  
Whitefield, Bengaluru - 560 048
Tel: + 91 80 6727 5000
Bhubaneswar
8th Floor , O-Hub, Tower A
Chandaka SEZ, Bhubaneswar
Odisha – 751024 
Tel: + 91 674 274 4490
Chandigarh
Elante offices, Unit No. B-613 & 614 
6th Floor , Plot No- 178-178A
Industrial & Business Park, Phase-I
Chandigarh - 160 002
Tel: + 91 172 6717800
Chennai
6th & 7th Floor , A Block,  
Tidel Park, No.4, Rajiv Gandhi Salai 
Taramani, Chennai - 600 113
Tel: + 91 44 6654 8100
Delhi NCR 
Aikyam
Ground Floor 
67, Institutional Area 
Sector 44, Gurugram - 122 003
Haryana
Tel:  +91 124 443 4000
3rd & 6th Floor , Worldmark-1
IGI Airport Hospitality District
Aerocity, New Delhi - 110 037
Tel:  + 91 11 4731 8000 
4th & 5th Floor , Plot No 2B 
Tower 2, Sector 126 
Gautam Budh Nagar , U.P.
Noida - 201 304 
Tel: + 91 120 671 7000 
Hyderabad
THE SKYVIEW 10 
18th Floor , “SOUTH LOBBY”
Survey No 83/1, Raidurgam
Hyderabad - 500 032
Tel: + 91 40 6736 2000
Jaipur
9th floor , Jewel of India
Horizon Tower , JLN Marg
Opp Jaipur Stock Exchange
Jaipur , Rajasthan - 302018
Kochi
9th Floor , ABAD Nucleus
NH-49, Maradu PO
Kochi - 682 304
Tel: + 91 484 433 4000 
Kolkata
22 Camac Street
3rd Floor , Block ‘C’
Kolkata - 700 016
Tel: + 91 33 6615 3400
Mumbai
14th Floor , The Ruby
29 Senapati Bapat Marg
Dadar (W), Mumbai - 400 028
Tel: + 91 22 6192 0000
5th Floor , Block B-2
Nirlon Knowledge Park
Off. Western Express Highway
Goregaon (E)
Mumbai - 400 063
Tel: + 91 22 6192 0000
3rd Floor , Unit No 301
Building No. 1
Mindspace Airoli West (Gigaplex)
Located at Plot No. IT-5
MIDC Knowledge Corridor
Airoli (West)
Navi Mumbai - 400708
Tel: + 91 22 6192 0003
Altimus, 18th Floor Pandurang 
Budhkar Marg Worli, Mumbai - 400 
018 Tel:  +91 22 6192 0503
Pune
C-401, 4th Floor 
Panchshil Tech Park, Yerwada 
(Near Don Bosco School)
Pune - 411 006
Tel:  + 91 20 4912 6000
10th Floor , Smartworks
M-Agile, Pan Card Club Road 
Baner , Taluka Haveli 
Pune - 411 045 
Tel:  + 91 20 4912 6800

[PAGE 20]
EY is building a better working world by creating new value for clients, 
people, society and the planet, while building trust in capital markets.
Enabled by data, AI and advanced technology, EY teams help clients shape 
the future with confidence and develop answers for the most pressing issues 
oftoday and tomorrow. 
EY teams work across a full spectrum of services in assurance, consulting, 
tax, strategy and transactions. Fueled by sector insights, a globally 
connected, multi-disciplinary network and diverse ecosystem partners, EY 
teams can provide services in more than 150 countries  and territories.
All in to shape the future with confidence. 
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of 
the member firms of Ernst  Young Global Limited, each of which is a 
separate legal entity. Ernst  Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by 
guarantee, does not provide services to clients. Information about how EY 
collects and uses personal data and a description of the rights individuals 
have under data protection legislation are available via ey.com/privacy. EYG 
member firms do not practice law where prohibited by local laws. For more 
information about our organization, please visit ey.com.
Ernst & Young LLP is one of the Indian client serving member firms of EYGM 
Limited. For more information about our organization, please visit www.
ey.com/en_in. 
Ernst & Young LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership, registered under the 
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 in India, having its registered office 
at Ground Floor , Plot No. 67, Institutional Area, Sector - 44, Gurugram, 
Haryana - 122 003, India.
© 2025 Ernst & Young LLP. Published in India. 
All Rights Reserved.
EYIN2505-022
ED None
This publication contains information in summary form and is therefore 
intended for general guidance only. It is not intended to be a substitute for 
detailed research or the exercise of professional judgment. Neither EYGM 
Limited nor any other member of the global Ernst  Young organization 
can accept any responsibility for loss occasioned to any person acting or 
refraining from action as a result of any material in this publication. On any 
specific matter , reference should be made to the appropriate advisor .
SA1
Ernst & Young LLP
EY | Building a better working world
cii.in/facebook
cii.in/x cii.in/linkedin cii.in/youtube
www.cii.in