SOURCE: 088_Grant Thornton__The World Inside IFSC GIFT City.pdf
PAGES: 48
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
The world inside 
IFSC - GIFT City  

[PAGE 2]
2  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City


[PAGE 3]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  3   
Contents
Section Page
Foreword	 5
I.	About	International	Financial	Services	Centre	(IFSC)	in	GIFT	City	 6
II.	About	International	Financial	Services	Centre	Authority	(IFSCA)	 8
III.	Banking	sector	 9
IV.	Global	Administrative	Office	(GAO)		 11
V.	Finance	company	 12
VI.	Global	In-house	Centre	(GIC)	 14
VII.	Capital	Market	Intermediaries	(CMIs)	-	IFSC	 15
VIII.	Fintech	entity	framework	 21
IX.	Fund	management	entity	(FME)	–	IFSC	 25
X.		Aircraft	leasing	in	IFSC	 29
XI.  IFSC Insurance Office (IIO) and IFSC Insurance  
Intermediary	Office	(IIIO)	 32
XII.	International	Bullion	Exchange	in	IFSC	 35
XIII.	Ship	leasing	in	IFSC	 38
XIV.	Ancillary	services	framework	 40
XV.  Setting up of international branch campuses or offshore  
education	centres	in	GIFT	City	 41
XVI.	Tax	regime	for	IFSC	units	 43
This document is prepared by Grant Thornton Bharat LLP (GTBLLP). This document (including any information 
contained in it) is intended to provide general information on a particular subject(s) and is not an exhaustive 
treatment of such subject(s) or a substitute for obtaining professional advice for particular business concerns or 
issues. The content of this document is based on our understanding of the applicable laws and regulations and 
our interpretation of the same. GTB LLP does not take any responsibility for the information, any errors or any 
decision and any loss thereof incurred by the reader as a result of relying on the document. The reader of this 
document may not rely on or use this document and may refer to their professional advisors for specific advice.
Disclaimer

[PAGE 4]
4  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City


[PAGE 5]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  5   
Dear Readers,
I am delighted to introduce this handbook on doing business 
in India’s first International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) 
established	in	2015	in	GIFT	City,	Gandhinagar ,	Gujarat.	The	
handbook provides a comprehensive understanding of the tax 
and regulatory regime in the IFSC, highlighting the benefits 
and opportunities available for businesses looking to invest in 
this emerging global financial hub.
Leveraging the country’s abundant talent and resources, the 
IFSC is well-positioned to serve global financial markets in 
all time zones, including Hong Kong, London, and New York. 
Investing in the IFSC GIFT City has become even more attractive 
for offshore financial market investors on account of various 
direct and indirect tax benefits and a liberalised regulatory 
regime applicable for entities operating within the IFSC. 
The concept of an IFSC was first conceived by the Government 
of	India	in	the	year	2007	based	on	the	recommendations	of	
a High-Powered Expert Committee headed by former World 
Bank economist Percy Mistry. The late Hon’ble Finance Minister 
Mr . Arun Jaitley, while presenting the Union Budget for the 
year	2015-16,	and	recognising	that	India	produces	some	of	
the finest financial minds, announced the establishment of 
India’s first IFSC in Gujarat’s GIFT City. Since then, the Indian 
government has demonstrated unwavering support for the 
success of IFSC GIFT City. To this end, the government has 
announced various tax and regulatory measures and other 
initiatives to create a tax-friendly and compliant regulatory 
framework, aimed at ‘onshoring the offshore’ financial services 
activity in IFSC GIFT City
The IFSC is not just about creating a financial centre; it is 
also about building an ecosystem that promotes innovation, 
entrepreneurship, and collaboration. It aligns perfectly with the 
‘Vibrant Bharat’ narrative which is about positioning India as a 
Foreword
global hub for business, investment, and technology. The IFSC 
is an integral part of this vision, offering a platform for Indian 
businesses to connect with global markets and access cutting-
edge financial services, while also providing foreign businesses 
with an opportunity to establish a presence in India and tap 
into its potential.
IFSC GIFT City’s strategic location on the Delhi-Mumbai 
Industrial Corridor (DMIC) route, along with its smart city 
infrastructure, unified regulator , and high-priority status 
as a government project, makes it an attractive investment 
destination for financial service providers. In addition to its tax 
benefits and flexible regulatory regime, the IFSC GIFT City has 
seen a significant increase in permissible activities, players, 
and volume of activities over the past few years. Today, many 
banks, funds, financial intermediaries, insurance companies, 
ancillary services players, fintech entities, bullion players, 
aircraft leasing companies, fund managers, and more have 
established their presence and begun their operations in IFSC 
GIFT City. 
The handbook provides an overview of the rationale for setting 
up an IFSC in India, exchange control regulations, tax regime, 
exemptions, and IFSCA’s role in regulating financial institutions. 
It aims to help businesses gain a complete understanding of all 
aspects before investing in or operating from IFSC GIFT City, 
and discusses the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead 
for India as a global financial hub.
I hope that, as readers, you will find this handbook insightful 
and valuable for IFSC GIFT City-related business activities.
With warm regards
Deepankar Sanwalka
Partner , National Management 
Grant Thornton Bharat LLP
The IFSC GIFT city aligns perfectly with the 
‘Vibrant Bharat’ narrative, which is about 
positioning India as a global hub for business, 
investment, and technology

[PAGE 6]
6  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
I.  About International 
Financial Services Centre 
(IFSC) in GIFT City
An International Financial Centre (IFC) is a centre that 
facilitates international activities and operates under a 
regulatory framework that meets international norms. An IFC 
caters to customers outside the jurisdiction of the domestic 
economy and deals with flows of finance, financial products 
and services across borders. Considering the uniqueness of 
India’s geographical location, size of the economy, increasing 
international trade, the abundance of talent and the need for 
faster economic development, the government of India decided 
to set up India’s first IFC in Gujarat International Finance Tec-
City (GIFT City) in Gandhinagar , Gujarat.
In India, the IFSC GIFT City has been approved by the 
government of India under the Special Economic Zones Act 
2005.	Activities	carried	out	in	an	IFSC	extend	across	the	entire	
financial services spectrum, including banking, capital markets, 
insurance, global in-house centres (GICs), asset management 
and other sectors through respective regulations enabled by 
the financial services regulator from time to time. 
GIFT	City	is	spread	across	3.6	million	square	metres	in	
Gandhinagar , the capital city of Gujarat, and consists of a 
multi-service special economic zone (SEZ) and an exclusive 
domestic tariff area (DTA). The GIFT SEZ has been set up 
in	accordance	with	the	Special	Economic	Zones	Act	2005,	
Special	Economic	Zones	Rules	2006	and	the	regulations	made	
thereunder .	The	total	area	of	1.05	million	square	metres	has	
been	demarcated	as	an	SEZ,	and	an	additional	2.52	million	
square metres has been marked as DTA with commercial office 
space, social infrastructure such as schools, medical facilities, 
indoor and outdoor sports facilities, leisure zones, multi-cuisine 
restaurants	and	a	5-Star	hotel.	The	infrastructure	developed	
in GIFT City, such as the district cooling system (DCS), 
automated waste collection system (AWCS), water treatment 
plant and underground utility tunnel, contribute to making the 
city a leading smart city.
Rationale for setting up an 
IFSC in India
In comparison to existing and emerging financial centres 
globally, India has numerous competitive advantages. India’s 
geostrategic location facilitates serving all time zones, including 
major financial markets like Hong Kong, London, New York, etc. 
It has a large pool of talented professionals and professional 
service providers with huge and diversified demography. India 
is also emerging as a leading technology innovation hub, given 
the fintech boom being witnessed over the last few years in 
India. In addition, India is currently growing faster than most 
of the larger economies, and several cross-border transactions 
are happening amongst global and Indian MNCs pertaining to 
India.
Applicability of exchange 
control regulations
In	March	2015,	the	RBI	enacted	the	FEMA	(IFSC)	Regulations	
which are applicable to financial institutions and branches 
of financial institutions set up in an IFSC. As per the said 
regulations, such entities are treated as persons residing 
outside India and are required to conduct business in a foreign 
currency other than Indian Rupees (INR), whether with a 
resident or otherwise. However , the RBI may allow such financial 
institutions or branches of financial institutions, through 
specific or general permission, to conduct business in Indian 
Rupees, whether with a resident or otherwise.

[PAGE 7]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  7   
Applicability of the Companies 
Act 2013
The	Ministry	of	Corporate	Affairs,	vide	the	Notifications	dated	4	
January	2017 ,	has	granted	various	relaxations	and	exemptions	
under	the	Companies	Act	2013	to	companies	licenced	t	o	
operate in an IFSC. Such relaxations and exemptions to IFSC 
companies have been granted to enhance the ease of doing 
business in an IFSC. The said notifications inter-alia also set out 
the below mentioned requirements for IFSC companies:
• At all times, the specified IFSC company is to have its 
registered office at the IFSC located in an approved multi-
services SEZ, where it is licenced to operate.
• The suffix ‘International Financial Services Centre’ or 
‘IFSC’ is to be used as a part of the name of the respective 
company.
• The formation of a company is to be with the objective of 
performing financial services activities as permitted under 
the SEZ Act and rules thereof. 
• The formation of a company is to be limited by shares.
Further , the following are the key exemptions provided 
under the Companies Act for IFSC companies:
• Provisions relating to CSR will be applicable after five years 
from the commencement of business of a specified IFSC 
company.
• There are exemptions from constituting an audit committee 
and nomination and remuneration committee, and 
stakeholders’ relationship committee.
• The timelines for submitting the various forms and returns 
under	the	Companies	Act	2013	have	been	relaxed	from	the	
prescribed timelines. 
Dispute resolution mechanism 
in IFSC
With increasing participation by international and domestic 
parties in IFSC GIFT City, an international dispute resolution 
mechanism is required for developing the IFSC GIFT City as 
a global financial hub. Considering this and with the aim to 
provide a neutral and independent dispute resolution platform 
to parties, GIFT City has tied up with Singapore International 
Arbitration Centre (SIAC), which has opened its office in the 
IFSC GIFT City. Accordingly, entities in the IFSC GIFT City are 
permitted to choose SIAC arbitration for any dispute resolution 
purposes. Under this arrangement, while case management is 
handled by the SIAC in Singapore, the IFSC GIFT City is the 
venue of the hearing, and thus, parties may not be required to 
visit Singapore for such proceedings. It may be noted that vide 
Union	Budget	2023,	it	is	proposed	to	amend	the	IFSCA	Act	for	
statutory provisions relating to arbitration.

[PAGE 8]
8  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
II.  About International 
Financial Services Centre 
Authority (IFSCA) 
The government of India established International Financial 
Services	Centres	Authority	in	April	2020	under	the	International	
Financial	Services	Centres	Authority	Act,	2019 ,	passed	by	the	
Indian Parliament.
IFSCA has regulatory oversight over all financial institutions 
incorporated in the IFSC, and it has been vested with the 
powers of four sectoral regulators, viz. the Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Insurance 
Regulatory Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and Pension 
Fund Regulatory Development Authority of India (PFRDAI). For 
the first time, the regulatory powers of four financial services 
regulators in India have been vested in a single authority, 
i.e., IFSCA. The IFSCA is designated with the responsibility for 
developing and prescribing regulations for all the financial 
institutions in IFSC GIFT City, making it a unified regulator for 
the IFSC. The composition of the IFSCA is as under: 
Sr No. Composition
1 Chairperson appointed by the government of India (GOI) 
2 An	ex-officio	member	each	nominated	by	SEBI,	RBI,	IRDAI	
and PFRDA 
3 Two	ex-officio	members	nominated	by	GOI	from	amongst	
the	officials	of	the	Ministry	dealing	with	Finance		
4 Two other members appointed by GOI on the 
recommendation of a selection committee 
Approved by the government of India as an International 
Financial Services Centre (IFSC) at GIFT City, the IFSC 
reinforces India’s strategic position as a global hub for financial 
services.
The provision of financial services comes with several 
regulatory limitations that may have an impact on the ease 
of doing business and the overall economic growth and 
development in the country. With new regulations emerging 
in IFSCs and the establishment of the new regulator , the focus 
is now on creating a light-touch regulatory model to promote 
innovation and growth through the sophistication of financial 
services. 
IFSCA has to date issued various regulations, frameworks and 
guidelines, enabling financial service activities in an IFSC. The 
IFSCA-authorised entities can operate under the respective 
regulations/frameworks from the IFSC GIFT City for doing 
cross-border business relating to financial products or services 
with their Indian (subject to the relevant IFSCA regulations) as 
well as overseas clients/businesses.
Following is the list of key regulations and frameworks 
issued by the IFSCA over the last few years:
IFSCA (Banking) Regulations 2020
IFSCA (Bullion Exchange) Regulations 2020
IFSCA (Global In-house Centres) Regulations 2020
IFSCA (Issuance and Listing of Securities) Regulations 2021
IFSCA (Finance Company) Regulations 2021
IFSCA (Market Infrastructure Institutions) Regulations 2021
IFSCA (Capital Market Intermediaries) Regulations 2021
IFSCA (Registration of Insurance Business) Regulations 2021
IFSCA (Fund Management) Regulations 2022
Framework for enabling Ancillary Services at IFSC 2021
Framework for undertaking Global/Regional Corporate Treasury 
Centres Activities by Finance Company/Finance Unit in IFSC 2021
Framework for Aircraft leasing under the Finance Company 
Regulations 2022
Framework for Ship Leasing under the Finance Company Regulations 
2022
Framework for Fintech Entity in the IFSCs 2022
The IFSC at GIFT City provides an unprecedented opportunity 
to global investors to set up businesses in the areas of banking, 
investments (especially green finance and social impact 
capital), insurance and reinsurance, capital market and asset 
management. It is poised to emerge as a leading financial 
service-related business jurisdiction and as a global hub for 
fintech start-ups.
The IFSCA enables registered entities, including branches 
wherever permitted, to operate, innovate and succeed, 
facilitated by an internationally comparable regulatory 
framework under a special offshore status within India.

[PAGE 9]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  9   
III. Banking sector in IFSC
Background
The role of the banking sector in the growth and economic 
performance of a country has always been very critical. 
Given this, the Indian Banking system is highly regulated, 
and the pervasiveness of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is 
evident in every aspect of banking. The present Indian banking 
system under RBI caters mainly to domestic businesses and 
transactions, but with the increase in globalisation by various 
businesses and ever-increasing cross-border transactions 
by Indian businesses, there is a growing need to allow banks 
to conduct such businesses from India. The idea of allowing 
banking activities in IFSCs is to onshore most of the cross-
border financial service transactions that are presently being 
carried offshore. 
Given the said need, the concept of ‘international banking 
units’ was initially introduced by RBI, and a few years back, 
the IFSC Banking Regulations were issued by the RBI. After 
the set-up of IFSCA, it is now the regulatory authority for the 
financial institutions, including banking units (BU) set up in an 
IFSC. Accordingly, banks are now required to obtain a licence 
from IFSCA for setting up IFSC Banking Units (IBUs) in the IFSC 
GIFT City.  
Regulatory framework for the 
banking units in IFSC
Who can set up a banking unit?
• Indian banks1 and foreign banks2 having a presence in India 
can set up a banking unit in an IFSC. 
• Foreign banks not having a presence in India and wholly-
owned subsidiaries (WOS) of foreign banks incorporated in 
India are also permitted to set up a banking unit (BU) in an 
IFSC.
1.  ‘Indian bank’ means any bank incorporated or established under any act and includes a wholly-owned subsidiary of a 
foreign bank incorporated in India but does not include a co-operative bank.
2. ‘Foreign bank’ means a banking company incorporated or established outside of India.
3.  ‘Parent bank’ means a foreign bank as defined under sub-regulation (d) or an Indian bank as defined under sub-regulation 
(f), or both, as the case may be, that intends to or has set up a banking unit.
4.  ‘Home regulator’ means the regulatory authority that is responsible for regulating the parent bank in the jurisdiction where 
the parent bank is incorporated, licenced or established.
Registration/licence 
requirements
For granting a licence/setting up an IBU in the IFSC GIFT 
City, the following are the key consideration points: 
• The parent bank3 shall provide necessary regulatory capital 
subject	to	a	minimum	of	USD	20	million	(base	capital	
requirement) and also undertake to provide liquidity for 
the operations of the IBU. The minimum capital can be 
maintained at the parent bank level.
• The parent bank is required to obtain a no-objection letter 
from its home regulator4 for setting up an IBU in the IFSC 
GIFT City.
• The parent bank is permitted to establish only one banking 
unit as a branch in each IFSC.
• The banking company is required to comply with the 
prudential directions and instructions issued by the home 
regulator and ensure that the IBU has access to the parent 
bank’s liquid assets and financial resources, which are 
adequate in relation to the nature, size and complexity of 
the business of the IBU.
• IBUs are required to follow Know Your Customer (KYC) 
norms, combating the financing of terrorism and other 
anti-money laundering requirements, including reporting 
requirements issued by the Reserve Bank from time to time 
unless otherwise specified by the IFSCA.
The IFSCA has provided the following prudential 
requirements, which are applicable  to the IBUs in the 
IFSC GIFT City:
• IBUs are not required to maintain the statutory liquidity ratio 
(SLR) or cash reserve ratio (CRR) specified by the RBI.
• IBUs are required to maintain the liquidity coverage ratio 
(LCR) and net stable funding ratio (NSFR) at the branch 
level. However , the same may be maintained at the parent 
bank level with the permission of the IFSCA.

[PAGE 10]
10  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
• Leverage ratio (LR) for IBUs may be maintained at the parent 
bank level and subject to the regulations specified by the 
respective home regulator applicable to the parent bank 
unless otherwise specified by the IFSCA.
• IBUs are required to maintain a retail deposit reserve ratio 
(RDRR)	on	a	daily	basis	at	3%	of	the	deposits	raised	from	
individuals outstanding as of the end of the previous working 
day.
Permissible activities
Banking units can undertake any or all of the activities 
mentioned	under	clause	(e)	of	Section	3(1)	of	the	IFSCA	Act	
or	Section	6	of	the	Banking	Regulation	Act,	1949 ,	except	those	
expressly prohibited by the Authority. 
The broad categories of permissible activities are 
summarised as follows: 
• Commercial banking – This includes acceptance of 
deposits, borrowing and lending within banking units, retail 
and corporate lending, external commercial borrowing 
(ECB) and trade finance, equipment leasing and hire 
purchase business, factoring and forfaiting services and 
undertaking negotiation of letters of credit (LC) of its 
constituents.
• Private banking – It includes structured deposits, distributors 
of financial products, investment advisory services, etc.
• Capital market division – It includes issuing over-the-counter 
(OTC) derivative contracts, entering into non-deliverable 
forward contracts, acting as a trading and clearing member 
of stock exchanges, undertaking money market operations, 
operating as a foreign portfolio investor (FPI), investing 
in securities issued outside an IFSC (other than Indian 
securities), Bullion trading members and clearing members 
in GIFT-IFSC and operating as an investment banker .
• Other services – These involve acting as a foreign exchange 
prime broker , underwriting the subscription of funds, acting 
as the custodian of securities, acting as a portfolio manager , 
merchant banking services, undertaking foreign exchange 
transactions, etc.
Our comments
Considering the relatively flexible regulatory regime, 
foreign and Indian banks are finding IFSCs to be a great 
opportunity to serve cross-border operations of Indian 
and global clients. In addition, the IFSC GIFT City provides 
a lot of direct and indirect tax exemptions to banks 
operating within it. Further , due to regulatory flexibility, the 
IBUs can provide new products such as non-deliverable 
forwards (NDFs), aircraft leasing and financing, investing 
in India as FPI and participating in International Bullion 
Exchange operations, which otherwise cannot be 
undertaken from India. 
Given the aforesaid benefits and the regulatory flexibility 
being provided by the banking regulations in the IFSC 
GIFT City, it would be beneficial for the banks having 
international operations to set up a unit in the IFSC GIFT 
City to tap the vast business opportunities available, 
especially in a fast-growing country like India. 
Against this backdrop, IFSCs have seen significant growth 
in banking activity, especially over the last two years. The 
key banking activities undertaken by the IBUs include 
external commercial borrowings, foreign currency term 
loans, trade finance, non-deliverable forward (NDF), etc.   
Expert comment
“ Several banks (including Indian and 
global banks) have established IFSC 
Banking Units (IBUs). With various new 
global products/solutions, which are 
proposed to be introduced in the IFSC 
GIFT City, it will not be a surprise that 
most large global banks would be 
present in the IFSC GIFT City sooner or 
later such that they remain competitive 
in the Indian/regional market.” 
Amit Kedia
Chartered Accountant
Mumbai

[PAGE 11]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  1 1   
IV.  Global Administrative 
Office (GAO) 
Background
IFSCA vide IFSCA (Banking) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022,	has	introduced	a	Global	Administrative	Office	(GAO)	
framework for a banking company incorporated in India or 
outside India to set up GAO as a branch mode in the IFSC 
GIFT City. As a concept, in addition to being a service/support 
service unit to the group’s banking activity, GAO can also act 
as a communication channel between the parent company 
and its customers.
What is a GAO as per the IFSCA 
(Banking) regulations?
A Global Administrative Office (GAO) is a financial institution 
set up in an IFSC by a banking company that manages, 
administers or coordinates the operations of the parent bank5 
or any of the group entities and provides support services to 
the parent bank or any of the group entities6 for the execution 
of the permitted activities inside or outside IFSC.
Key regulatory framework
The key highlights of the framework are as follows:
Who can set up a GAO?
• A banking company incorporated in India or outside India is 
permitted to set up a GAO in an IFSC as a branch.
• A banking company incorporated in India or outside India 
and having IBU or RO in an IFSC can also set up a GAO.
Permissible activities
The GAO is allowed to undertake the following activities: 
• Managing, administering or coordinating the operations of 
the parent bank or any of the group entities either inside or 
outside an IFSC 
• Providing support services7 to the parent bank or any of the 
group entities for the execution of the permitted activities 
either in an IFSC or outside it.
Key considerations
• The entity (a banking company) desirous of registering as 
GAO can make an application to the Authority. 
• The GAO shall be located in an IFSC.
• The ‘Head of GAO’ shall be responsible for the activities of 
the GAO carried on from an IFSC, and they will be a resident 
in India and will carry out all functions of the GAO from an 
IFSC.
• The GAO is not permitted to book any banking or trading 
transaction on account of the banking company or on 
behalf of the banking company.
Our comments
The GAO framework allows banks to render various 
support services to their parent bank as well as carry 
out activities such as new product development, market 
research, marketing, development, etc., on behalf of the 
parent bank. These kinds of activities are not permitted 
to be carried out by banks regulated by the RBI in India. 
Thus, these regulations open up a new avenue of business 
activities to be carried out by banks from the IFSC GIFT 
City. The GAO is a unique proposition, especially for 
foreign banking companies looking to set up offshore 
branches/units with minimal cost and investment in 
an offshore jurisdiction for carrying out the aforesaid 
activities. 
5.  ‘Parent bank’ means a foreign bank or an Indian bank, as defined under these regulations or both, that intends to or has 
set up a banking unit, representative office, or regional administrative office. 
6.  ‘Group entities’ mean any holding company, subsidiaries, branches or any other entity, in whatever legal form, through 
which the parent bank undertakes its operations or permitted activities.
7 .  ‘Support services’ means the ancillary activities and processes required for the execution of the permitted activities.

[PAGE 12]
12  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
V. Finance company in IFSC
Background
Globally, there are various jurisdictions where large private 
equity (PE) funds, multi-national conglomerates and non-
bank groups set up offshore entities to act either as a holding 
company or to carry on lending/investing activities. Over the 
last few decades, it has been observed that non-bank entities 
play a pivotal role in providing finance and other financial 
support services to various businesses, and they also play 
a vital role in the growth and development of any financial 
centre.
Considering their significance and in order to promote 
such business activities, the IFSCA notified the International 
Financial Services Centre Authority (Finance Company) 
Regulations,	2021	(FC	Regulations),	on	25	March	2021.	
The FC Regulations have been drafted to enable global 
financial services companies to set up holding companies, 
carry out investing/lending activities, undertake global treasury 
operations and provide various financial services from the IFSC 
GIFT City.
Regulatory framework for the 
finance company 
What is a finance company?
A finance company is a financial institution separately 
incorporated to deal in one or more of the permissible activities 
in an IFSC without accepting deposits from the public and not 
registered as a banking unit with the IFSCA.
Registration and form of setup
• A finance company can be set up as a subsidiary, joint 
venture, newly-incorporated company or in any other form 
as specified by IFSCA. 
• For undertaking one or more non-core activities, a finance 
company can also be set up in the form of a limited liability 
partnership (LLP) or trust. 
• In the case of the finance unit, it can be set up as a branch 
under these regulations. Further , a finance unit can be set 
up for undertaking core activities, provided the applicant 
is an incorporated entity and is engaged in the business 
of financial services duly regulated by a financial sector 
regulator in its home jurisdiction.
Permissible activities
Permissible activities are divided into two categories as follows:
Core activities
1	 Lending in the form of loans, commitments and guarantees, 
credit enhancement, securitisation, financial lease and sale 
and purchase of portfolios 
2	 Factoring and forfaiting of receivables
3	 Undertaking investments, including subscribing, acquiring, 
holding or transferring securities or such other instruments 
as may be permitted by the Authority 
4	 Buying or selling derivatives
5	 Global/Regional Corporate Treasury Centres  
6	 Any other core activity as may be permitted by the IFSCA.
Non-core activities
Non-core activities include merchant banking, registrar and 
share transfer agent, investment advisory services, portfolio 
management services, operating lease of any products, 
including aircraft lease, ship lease or any other specified 
equipment, International Trade Financing Services Platform, 
distribution of financial products (including mutual fund units 
and insurance products), etc.

[PAGE 13]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  1 3   
Prudential requirements
The finance company/finance unit registered with the 
IFSCA is required to comply with prudential norms as 
stated below:
• Maintain	a	minimum	capital	ratio	of	8%	of	its	regulatory	
capital to risk-weighted assets or such percentage as 
specified by the IFSCA. 
• Maintain liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) on a stand-alone 
basis at all times as determined by the IFSCA; for the 
finance unit, the parent entity may be allowed to maintain 
the LCR after obtaining the specific approval of the IFSCA.
• Maintain exposure ceiling: The sum of all exposures to a 
single counterparty or group of connected counterparties 
shall	not	exceed	25%	of	the	available	eligible	capital	base	
without the approval of the Authority.
Minimum owned capital
Nature of activities Minimum owned fund requirement 
(in USD or equivalent amount in any other 
freely convertible currency)
One or more of the 
non-core activities 
only – without any 
core activities
(1)  Higher of USD 0.2 million or any such 
amount as may be required to seek 
specific	registration	for	a	proposed	
non-core activity under the respective 
framework/regulation for that particular 
activity; or
(2)		Any	higher	amount	as	may	be	specified	
by the IFSCA
One or more core 
activities with or 
without non-core 
activities, except for 
the Global/Regional 
Corporate Treasury 
Centre
(1)  Higher of USD 3 million, minimum 
regulatory capital for core activities 
as	specified	by	the	IFSCA;	or	any	such	
amount as may be required for non-core 
activities under the respective framework/
regulation for that particular activity; or 
(2)		Any	higher	amount	as	may	be	specified	
by the IFSCA 
For Global/Regional 
Corporate Treasury 
Centres
Higher of USD 0.2 million or any such amount 
as may be required under the relevant 
regulatory	framework	specified	by	the	IFSCA
The owned fund for a finance company refers to the paid-up 
capital and free reserves balance in the share premium 
account and capital reserves representing surplus arising out 
of sale proceeds of an asset, excluding reserves created by 
the revaluation of an asset, as reduced by accumulated loss 
balance, the book value of intangible assets and deferred 
revenue expenditure, if any.
Our comments
Finance company (FC) regulations provide ample 
opportunities for domestic and foreign non-banking 
financial entities to set up operations in the IFSC GIFT 
City. The wide range of financial services-related activities 
that can be undertaken by the finance companies, 
coupled with the tax benefits and lower operational 
costs in the IFSC GIFT City, will pave a path for various 
businesses to serve domestic and overseas customers, 
which otherwise may not be available in Indian 
jurisdiction.
Under these regulations, the IFSCA has allowed the setting 
up of Global/Regional Corporate Treasury Centres in the 
IFSC GIFT City, which will create plenty of opportunities 
for Indian and global MNCs to centralise their treasury 
operations for availing inter-corporate financing and for 
effective liquidity management amongst them. Further , the 
FC regulations provide a lucrative opportunity for setting 
up a holding company structure and also provide a host of 
financial services across geography under a single entity 
structure. Thus, this makes FC regulations an attractive 
proposition for carrying out a variety of financial services 
businesses under one single entity. 

[PAGE 14]
14  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
VI.  Global In-house Centre 
(GIC) 
Background
GICs are service delivery operations typically in low-cost 
jurisdictions and serve as offshore back-end processing centres 
for the parent company. A GIC provides varied services, which 
include customer onboarding/servicing, security and trade 
reconciliation, account setup and maintenance, risk and 
compliance screening, enquiries and transaction processing, 
as well as end-to-end sensitive processes, such as credit and 
decision analytics, financial risk management and anti-money 
laundering. 
The choice of jurisdiction for setting up a GIC is driven by 
various factors such as talent pool, infrastructure, regulatory 
environment and tax incentives available to them. Given 
the available financial and technological infrastructure in 
an IFSC and its potential to become a centre  for high-end 
data	processing,	in	November	2020,	the	IFSCA	notified	the	
IFSCA	(Global	In-house	Centres)	Regulations,	2020	(GIC	
Regulations). These regulations provide a detailed framework 
for recognising and operationalising a GIC in the IFSC GIFT 
City.
What are GIC and permissible 
activities?
 As per the IFSC GIC Regulations, a GIC  is a unit set up in an 
IFSC for providing support services, directly or indirectly, to 
entities within its financial services group, including, but not 
limited to, banks, non-banking financial companies, financial 
intermediaries, investment banks, insurance companies, 
reinsurance companies, actuaries, brokerage firms, funds, 
stock exchanges, clearing houses, depositories and custodians, 
for carrying out a financial service in respect of a financial 
product. A global in-house centre shall provide services to non-
resident entities only.
Who can set up a GIC?
An entity belonging to a financial services group can set up 
a GIC in an IFSC and shall be required to meet the following 
eligibility criteria laid down by the IFSCA:
• The GIC shall exclusively provide support services to its 
financial services group8, which must be an entity located in 
a Financial Action Task Force (FATF)-compliant jurisdiction.
• Such support services should be provided for the purpose 
of carrying out a financial service in respect of a financial 
product.
Key consideration points to set up a GIC in IFSC:
Mode of conducting 
business
A GIC can be set up as a company, an LLP , a 
branch or any other form of entity.
Approval required Approval is required from the IFSC Authority 
under GIC Regulations and from the 
Development Commissioner SEZ under the SEZ 
Act 2005.
Relocation of 
employees
New employees will need to be hired in the GIC. 
Relocation of employees from Indian entities is 
not allowed, subject to an exception:
Only supervisory personnel are permitted to 
be transferred from the existing entity - subject 
to	a	maximum	of	20%	of	such	personnel	to	the	
GIC with prior approval of the IFSCA.
Currency To deal in freely convertible foreign 
currency only. GIC is permitted to defray its 
administrative expenses in INR by maintaining 
an INR account.
Minimum capital 
requirement
There is no minimum capital requirement 
prescribed for GIC.
Our comments
The GIC regulations allow multinational entities to set up 
their offshore support entities in the IFSC GIFT City and 
extend several operational and tax advantages available 
to the units registered therein. A GIC set up in an IFSC is 
also eligible for benefits provided by the government of 
Gujarat	under	the	Gujarat	IT/ITeS	Policy	(2022-27).	
Given the well-regulated ecosystem backed by developing 
physical infrastructure, a GIC set up in the IFSC GIFT 
City provides the global financial services group with an 
opportunity to maximise its scale of core operations while 
ensuring access to reliable support services at a relatively 
better cost in comparison to outsourcing such services to 
third parties in their home jurisdiction. 
8.  ‘Financial services group’ means any entity, which is regulated by a financial services regulator or any other competent body regulating financial services activities in its home jurisdiction and 
includes its holding, subsidiary or associate companies, branch or subsidiary of a holding company to which it is also a subsidiary.

[PAGE 15]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  1 5   
VII.  Capital Market 
Intermediaries (CMIs) - 
IFSC
Background
Intermediaries play an important role by acting as a facilitator 
between their clients and the regulator for various regulated 
financial products and financial services. They are also 
essential for building the ecosystem in any jurisdiction that 
aims to become a key player in the capital market domain. 
The	IFSCA	(Capital	Market	Intermediaries)	Regulations,	2021	
(Intermediaries Regulations), have been enacted focusing on 
ease of doing business and consistent with the fundamental 
principles laid down by the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions. 
Capital market intermediaries who can function in the 
IFSC ecosystem can be broker-dealers, clearing members, 
depository participants, investment bankers, portfolio 
managers, investment advisers, custodians, credit rating 
agencies, debenture trustees, account aggregators, etc. 
IFSCs also have two internationally recognised stock 
exchanges (RSEs), namely the India International Exchange 
(IFSC) Limited (India INX) and NSE IFSC Ltd. The RSEs are 
regulated by the IFSC Authority, and they offer investors longer 
trading hours in a range of financial market products such 
as index and single stock derivatives, commodity derivatives, 
currency derivatives, debt securities, etc. 
The IFSCA notified IFSCA (Capital Market Intermediaries) 
Regulations,	2021	(CMI	Regulations),	on	18	October	2021.	
These regulations supersede the earlier SEBI (IFSC) guidelines, 
2015,	and	other	specific	regulations	issued	from	time	to	time	as	
referred under the CMI Regulations. The regulations, inter alia, 
provide for regulatory requirements with respect to registration, 
net worth, obligations, responsibilities, etc.The RSEs are regulated by the IFSC 
Authority, and they offer investors longer 
trading hours in a range of financial 
market products.

[PAGE 16]
16  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
What are the registration 
requirements?
Application
1	 To obtain registration as a capital market intermediary (CMI) 
in an IFSC, an application is to be submitted to IFSCA in a 
prescribed format, along with the application fee.
2	 An applicant seeking registration to act as a broker-dealer , 
clearing member or depository participant shall make an 
application to IFSCA, along with additional information 
required through the recognised stock exchange (RSE), 
recognised clearing corporation or recognised depository.
Legal form of the applicant
1	 An applicant seeking registration with the IFSCA shall be 
required to be present in an IFSC by establishing a branch 
or forming a company, limited liability partnership, body 
corporate, partnership firm, proprietorship firm or any other 
form as may be permitted by the IFSCA. 
2	 A CMI operating as a branch structure in an IFSC shall 
comply with the following conditions:
 – The entity shall adequately ring-fence the operations of 
the branch in an IFSC.
 – The entity shall maintain a minimum net worth for its 
activities in an IFSC, separately and in addition to 
the minimum net worth applicable for other activities 
outside an IFSC, and the net-worth requirement may be 
maintained at the parent level.
 – The entity shall maintain minimum capital as may 
be specified by the IFSCA, which shall be earmarked 
for an IFSC and may be held in the jurisdiction of its 
incorporation.
Coverage of intermediaries:
The following categories of intermediaries are required to 
obtain a certificate of registration from the IFSCA prior to 
the commencement of operations in an IFSC for providing 
financial services:
Broker-dealers
Depository participants 
Custodian 
Investment advisors 
Debenture trustee
Clearing members 
Investment bankers 
Credit rating agency 
Account aggregator

[PAGE 17]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  1 7   
Below are the key features and regulatory requirements of the CMI regulations applicable to respective 
intermediaries:
Broker-dealers
• A broker-dealer has been defined as a person having trading rights in any recognised stock exchange (RSE) 
and includes a trading member .
• A broker-dealer can have the following categories as clients:
 – A person resident outside India
 – A non-resident Indian
 – A non-individual resident in India who is eligible under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) to 
invest funds offshore to the extent of outward investment permitted
 – An individual resident in India who is eligible under FEMA to invest funds offshore to the extent allowed in the 
Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
• Net-worth requirement
 – Indian entity (including IFSC) – as specified by the RSE 
 – Foreign	entity	–	as	specified	by	the	RSE	but	subject	to	a	minimum	of	USD	0.135	million
Clearing member
• A clearing member is defined as a person having clearing and settlement rights in any recognised clearing 
corporation.
• Net-worth requirement
 – Indian entity (including IFSC) – as specified by the recognised clearing corporation 
 – Foreign	entity	–	as	specified	by	the	recognised	clearing	corporation,	subject	to	a	minimum	of	USD	1.35	
million	for	a	clearing	member	and	USD	0.675	million	for	a	self-clearing	member
• A clearing member may have the same categories of clients as discussed above for broker-dealers.
Depository participants
• A depository participant is defined as a participant of a recognised depository.
• Net-worth requirement – as specified by the depository 
• A depository participant may have the same categories as clients, as discussed above for broker-dealers.

[PAGE 18]
18  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
Investment bankers
• An investment banker is defined as a person who is engaged in the business of issue management either by making 
arrangements regarding selling, buying or subscribing to securities or acting as manager , consultant, adviser or 
rendering corporate advisory service in relation to such issue management.
• Net-worth requirement
 – Indian	entity	(including	IFSC)	–	USD	0.75	million
 – Foreign	entity	–	USD	1.5	million
• An investment banker may act as an underwriter of an issue in an IFSC subject to prescribed conditions.
• An investment banker shall not undertake any activity, except for marketing of the issue or offer , if the investment 
banker is a promoter or an associate of the issuer of securities or of any person making an offer to sell or purchase 
securities in terms of any regulations made by the IFSCA.
Custodian
• A custodian is defined as a person who carries on or proposes to carry on the business of providing custodial services.
• Custodian services include:
 – Maintaining accounts for such financial products
 – Collecting the benefits or rights accruing to the client in respect of such financial products
 – Keeping the client informed of the actions taken or to be taken by the issuer , having a bearing on the benefits or 
rights accruing to the client
 – Maintaining and reconciling records of the services
 – Undertaking activities relating to the issuance of depository receipts in an IFSC
• Net-worth requirement:
 – Indian	entity	(including	IFSC)	–	USD	7	million
 – Foreign entity – as specified by the authority 
Investment advisors
• An investment advisor is defined as a person who, for consideration, is engaged in the business of providing 
investment advice to clients or other persons or groups of persons and includes any person who holds out 
themselves as an investment advisor , by whatever name called.
• An investment advisor may have the same categories of clients as discussed above for broker-dealers.
• An investment advisor shall disclose to a prospective client all material information about themselves, including their 
business, disciplinary history, the terms and conditions on which they offer advisory services, affiliations with other 
intermediaries and such other information so as to enable the client to take an informed decision on whether or not 
to avail their advisory services and shall act in a fiduciary capacity by disclosing all the conflicts of interest (as and 
when they arise).
• An investment advisor must maintain an arm’s length relationship between their activities as an investment advisor 
and other activities.
• An investment advisor shall not act on their own account, knowingly sell securities or investment products to or 
purchase securities or investment products from a client.
• An individual investment advisor shall not provide any distribution services.
• Net-worth requirement:
 – Indian	entity	(including	IFSC)	–	USD	0.5	million
 – Foreign	entity	–	USD	1	million

[PAGE 19]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  1 9   
Credit rating agency 
• A credit rating agency is defined as a person who is engaged in the rating of securities or financial products or such 
other products as may be introduced by the Authority from time to time.
• Net-worth requirement:
 – Indian	entity	(Including	IFSC)	–	USD	3	million
 – Foreign	entity	–	USD	6	million
Debenture trustee
• A debenture trustee is defined as a trustee appointed in respect of any issue of debentures.
• A person shall not be appointed as a debenture trustee in cases where the debenture trustee is an associate of the 
issuer or is likely to have a conflict of interest in any manner other than as remuneration to the debenture trustee.
• A debenture trustee is not allowed to relinquish their assignment as a debenture trustee until another debenture 
trustee has been appointed by the issuer . 
• Net-worth requirement:
 – Indian	entity	(including	IFSC)	–	USD	1.5	million
 – Foreign	entity	–	USD	3	million
Account aggregator
• An account aggregator is defined as a person who undertakes the business of providing the service of retrieving or 
collecting information of their customer pertaining to financial assets and consolidating, organising and presenting 
such information to the customer or any other person as per the instructions of the customer .
• Net-worth requirement
 – Indian	entity	(including	IFSC)	–	USD	0.5	million
 – Foreign	entity	–	USD	1	million

[PAGE 20]
20  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
Our comments
Capital market intermediaries play an essential role in 
building a sustainable capital market ecosystem in any 
financial service centre by providing intermediation 
facilities between their clients and the various array of 
regulated financial services. The CMI Regulations bring 
the practices of the capital market in IFSCs at par with 
global practices followed in established overseas capital 
market jurisdictions. Further , as per CMI regulations, 
registered capital market intermediaries can undertake 
cross-border business in capital markets in India and 
foreign jurisdictions. Considering the tax benefit and the 
ecosystem being created by IFSCs, great opportunities 
lie with several capital market intermediaries to tap the 
benefit by setting up their operations in an IFSC.
Additionally, to offer issuers an efficient and consumer-centric 
route to raise capital from global markets, the IFSCA observed 
the need to prescribe a single regulatory framework for the 
issuance and listing of various types of securities in an IFSC. 
Accordingly, the IFSCA has notified the IFCSA (Issuance and 
Listing	of	Securities)	Regulations,	2021.	The	said	regulation	
inter alia applies to the initial public offer or follow-on public 
offer of specified securities9, the listing of specified securities by 
a start-up company or a small and medium enterprise (SME) 
company, secondary listing of specified securities, listing of 
depository receipts, listing of debt securities, listing of ESG debt 
securities, etc., in an IFSC. 
9. ‘Specified securities’ mean equity shares and convertible securities.

[PAGE 21]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  2 1   
VIII. Fintech entity framework
Background
As	part	of	the	Union	Budget	2021,	the	Finance	Minister	
announced the development of a world-class fintech hub at the 
IFSC GIFT City. Such a hub would provide further momentum 
to India’s fintech potential, as well as GIFT City’s envisioned role 
as a global financial and IT services hub. The hub is expected to 
capitalise on the GIFT structure and carve out a niche for itself 
in the fintech landscape, thereby providing start-ups with a 
dedicated platform to expand globally. 
Considering the importance of the fintech ecosystem in the 
overall development of International Financial Centres (IFCs), 
the	IFSCA,	on	27	April	2022,	published	a	detailed	‘Framework	
for Fintech Entity in the IFSCs.’ The framework aims to boost 
the establishment of a world-class fintech hub at the IFSC GIFT 
City and encourage the promotion of financial technologies 
across the spectrum of banking, insurance, securities and fund 
management activities. The framework covers the following: 
1	 Fintech solutions resulting in new business models, 
applications, processes or products in areas/activities linked 
to financial services regulated by the IFSCA
2	 Advanced/innovative technological solutions that aid and 
assist activities in relation to financial products, financial 
services and financial institutions 
The framework broadly prescribes the following two 
modes for fintech(s) to register with the IFSCA as a 
fintech entity (FE):
a. Direct entry (Authorisation by IFSCA) 
The framework enables some class/categories of technology 
entities to obtain direct entry having:   
1	 A deployable advanced/innovative technology solution that 
aids and assists activities in relation to financial products, 
financial services and financial institutions 
2	 A revenue-earning track record in at least one of the last 
three financial years 
b. Sandbox
An applicant shall be permitted to undertake one or more of the 
following activities under the IFSCA sandbox:
1	 Test fintech ideas or solutions in the IFSCA fintech regulatory 
sandbox 
2	 Develop and test fintech ideas or solutions in the IFSCA 
fintech innovation sandbox 
3	 Test fintech ideas or solutions in an inter-operable regulatory 
sandbox
4	 Provide fintech ideas or solutions in the overseas regulatory 
referral mechanism/fintech bridge offered by the IFSCA 
Who can apply for direct authorisation under the FE 
Framework?
Entities from India
1	 An entity registered with the Department for Promotion 
of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) as a start-up entity 
relating to fintech
2	 An entity incorporated as a company under the Companies 
Act	2013,	as	a		limited	liability	partnership	(LLP)	under	the	
Limited	Liability	Partnership	Act,	2008,	or	the	‘Branch’	of	an	
Indian company or LLP in an IFSC  
3	 An entity working directly or indirectly in the ecosystem 
regulated by a domestic financial sector regulator 
Entities from outside India
1	 An entity from the Financial Action Task Force (FATF)-
compliant countries/jurisdictions
Applicant as a ‘Fintech Entity’ may do the following:
1	 Separately incorporate an entity in the IFSC
2	 Establish a branch or a subsidiary of an Indian or foreign 
incorporated entity in an IFSC

[PAGE 22]
22  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
What are the permissible activities?
I.  Financial technology (fintech) 
solutions
Below is an illustrative list of permissible fintech areas/
activities linked to financial services regulated by IFSCA:
Fintech Solutions
Banking sector Capital markets and 
funds management
Insurance sector
Remittances and 
payments
Crowdfunding Insurtech
Digital lending Personal	finance Innovative technologies 
for insurance life cycle 
(underwriting, claims 
management of life, 
health products, etc.)
Buy now, pay 
later
Wealth tech Digital innovation for 
global health insurance 
cover
Crowd lending Robo advisory Innovation in 
commercial insurance
Digital bank (neo 
bank/challenger 
bank)
Sustainable	finance	
products 
Digital platform for the 
settlement of balances 
between insurance 
companies
Open banking Alternative trading 
platforms  
Open insurance
Embedded insurance
Cyber insurance
II.  Advanced or emerging technology 
solutions in allied areas/activities 
(tech-fin)
Below is an illustrative list of allied areas/activities aiding 
and assisting activities in relation to financial products, 
financial services and financial institutions (tech-fin):
1	 Agritech
2	 Accelerators
3	 Climate/green/ sustainable tech
4	 Defence tech
5	 Regulatory tech
6	 Space tech
7	 Supervisory tech
8	 Technology solution supporting digital banking  
(for example, core banking, etc.)
9	 Technology solution aiding trade finance
10	Solutions/services for banking, financial services and 
insurance (BFSI) domain leveraging
a Artificial intelligence/machine learning
b Big data
c Biometrics
d Chatbots
e Cyber security
f   Digital identity/KYC/anti-money laundering (AML)/
combating the financing of terrorism (CFT)
g Distributed ledger technology
h Fraud detection/prevention
i  Internet of Things (IoT)
j  Longevity finance
k  Metaverse, including augmented reality and/or virtual 
reality
l  Quantum tech
m Web	3.0

[PAGE 23]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  2 3   
Sandbox
‘Sandbox’ means a live environment with a limited set of real 
customers for a limited time frame, wherein enrolled fintech 
entities are permitted to test their solutions/products in a live 
environment with select real customers/investors operating 
in the capital market, banking, insurance and other financial 
services space in an IFSC.
The fintech entities that do not qualify for direct authorisation 
under the IFSCA FE framework are permitted to undertake 
one or more of the permissible activities under the IFSCA 
sandbox covered in the framework. Following are the limited-
use authorisations available under the IFSCA FE framework for 
entities desirous of registering other than direct authorisation:
A.  Fintech regulatory sandbox (FRS)
The framework provides for a dedicated regulatory sandbox 
for fintech products or solutions, namely IFSCA fintech 
regulatory sandbox, and empowers the IFSCA to grant limited 
use authorisation within the fintech regulatory sandbox to the 
eligible financial technology entities in an IFSC. This would also 
enable them to apply for and avail grants under the IFSCA 
Fintech	Incentive	Scheme	2022.
Who can apply for the regulatory sandbox under the FE 
framework?
Entities from India
1	 An entity registered with the Department for Promotion 
of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) as a start-up entity 
relating to Fintech 
2	 An entity incorporated as a company under the Companies 
Act	2013,	as	a	limited	liability	partnership	(LLP)	under	the	
Limited	Liability	Partnership	Act,	2008,	or	the	‘branch’	of	an	
Indian company or LLP in an IFSC 
3	 An entity working directly or indirectly in the ecosystem 
regulated by a domestic financial sector regulator
Entities from outside India
1	 An incorporated entity or the branch of an incorporated 
entity from FATF-compliant countries/jurisdictions
B.  Fintech innovation sandbox (FIS)
‘Innovation sandbox’ means a testing environment where 
fintech entities can test their ideas and solutions in isolation 
from the live market, which may add value to the financial 
products or financial services offered in an IFSC based on 
market-related data made available by financial institutions 
operating in an IFSC.
To promote innovation, IFSCA provides a testing environment 
under FIS. Upon successful exit from the FIS, the applicant shall 
be eligible to apply for the IFSCA fintech regulatory sandbox. 
Who can apply for the innovation sandbox under the FE 
framework?
Eligibility criteria remain the same as applicable to entities 
applying under the regulatory sandbox.
C.  Inter-operable regulatory sandbox 
(IoRS)
‘Inter-operable regulatory sandbox’ or ‘IoRS’ means a testing 
environment for innovative hybrid financial products/services 
falling within the regulatory ambit of more than one domestic 
financial sector regulator . 
The IFSCA will facilitate Indian fintech companies seeking 
access to foreign markets and foreign fintech companies 
seeking entry into India. The applications received by the 
authority from the domestic sector regulator(s)/coordination 
group of IoRS shall be subjected to the same screening process 
for entry into IoRS, as given under the fintech regulatory 
sandbox criteria of this framework.
Post successful exit from the IoRS, the entity shall approach the 
authority and the associate regulator(s) for authorisation and 
seek regulatory dispensation before launching the product in 
the market. 

[PAGE 24]
24  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
D.  Overseas regulatory referral 
mechanism/fintech bridge offered by 
IFSCA
‘Overseas regulatory referral’ refers to a cooperation 
mechanism between the authority and any overseas financial 
sector regulator for facilitating the fintech companies that 
would like to operate in each other’s jurisdictions. 
Fintech entities seeking to access the overseas regulatory 
referral mechanism/fintech bridges of IFSCA shall be governed 
as per the provisions of the memorandum of understanding 
(MoU) or collaboration or special arrangement between 
the authority and corresponding overseas financial sector 
regulator(s).
Fintech Incentive Scheme 
(Scheme)
Objective
The principal objective of the scheme is to promote the 
establishment of a world class fintech hub comparable with 
those located in advanced international financial centres 
(IFCs) by providing financial support to fintech activities in 
the form of specific grant(s) as specified in the said scheme. 
The Fintech Incentive Scheme is open for domestic fintech 
companies and foreign fintech companies. 
Types of incentives 
An eligible FE may receive the following grants under the 
applicable schemes:
1	 The fintech start-up grant is provided for developing a 
product or service and related go-to-market initiatives to a 
start-up	with	a	novel	fintech	idea	or	solution	for	up	to	INR	15	
lakh. 
2	 The proof of concept (POC) grant is provided for the 
purpose of conducting a POC by an early or mature FE in 
the	domestic	market	or	overseas	for	up	to	INR	50	lakh.	
3	 The sandbox grant is provided to FEs to experiment with 
innovative	products	or	services	in	a	sandbox	for	up	to	INR	30	
lakh. 
4	 The green fintech grant is provided for developing solutions 
facilitating sustainable finance and sustainability-linked 
finance, including environmental, social and governance 
(ESG)	investments	for	up	to	INR	75	lakh.	
5	 The accelerator grant is provided for supporting 
accelerators at an IFSC to eligible accelerator applicants for 
up	to	INR	10	lakh.	
6	 The listing support grant is provided for supporting domestic 
FEs aspiring to go for listing on stock exchanges recognised 
by	the	authority	for	up	to	INR	15	lakh.	
Our comments
Fintech companies have the potential to transform the 
financial service landscape in any financial services-
focused jurisdiction. Recognising the importance of 
fintech companies and to promote them further , the 
IFSCA has introduced the said framework. Eligible entities 
who have innovative ideas, solutions or technology 
relating to banking, capital market or insurance sectors 
can approach the IFSCA under this framework for 
authorisation as an FE. 
The said framework would enable fintech companies 
to develop/test their products/solutions, which will 
assist financial institutions by providing them with 
innovative business models, applications, processes, 
etc. The framework will provide fintech companies with 
a platform to expand their operations and also access 
overseas markets. Given the scope and applicability of 
this framework, it is expected to deliver benefits to fintech 
entities and the financial service sector at large.

[PAGE 25]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  2 5   
IX.  Fund management entity 
(FME) - IFSC
Background 
In order to develop a comprehensive regulatory framework 
for investment funds based on global best practices with a 
special	focus	on	ease	of	doing	business,	in	the	year	2020,	the	
IFSCA set up an expert committee (EC) with the objective of 
suggesting measures for scaling up venture capital and private 
equity investments in the IFSC GIFT City. The EC examined the 
regulatory regimes across various popular fund jurisdictions, 
such as Luxembourg, Singapore, Ireland, etc., and gave its 
recommendations. Based on these recommendations, the 
IFSCA	(Fund	Management)	Regulations,	2022,	were	notified	
in	2022.	The	said	regulations	have	been	issued	in	line	with	
global practices where the IFSCA intends to regulate the fund 
managers against exercising regulatory oversight over the 
funds. 
Key regulatory requirements 
1. What are FME and a fund manager? 
Fund management entity or FME means an entity registered 
with the IFSCA as a fund management entity under the IFSCA 
(Fund	Management)	regulations,	2022,	under	any	of	the	
categories specified in the regulations. FMEs can be further 
segregated into two broad categories – authorised FMEs and 
registered FMEs (non-retail and retail). Further , a fund manager 
is any individual who is appointed by the FME to manage its 
investments.  
Authorised FME
These FMEs pool money from accredited investors or investors 
investing by way of a private placement, and then they invest 
that money in start-ups or early-stage ventures through the 
Venture Capital Scheme.  
Family investment funds investing in securities, financial 
products and other permitted asset classes can also seek 
registration as an authorised FME.  
Registered (non-retail) FMEs
These FMEs pool money from accredited investors or investors 
investing by way of a private placement and then invest that 
money in securities, financial products and other permitted 
asset classes through one or more restricted schemes. Such 
FMEs can also undertake portfolio management services 
(including services for multi-family offices) and act as 
investment managers for the private placement of investment 
trusts (REITs and InvITs).   
Registered (non-retail) FMEs can undertake all activities as 
permitted by authorised FMEs. They are subject to relatively 
higher regulatory oversight than authorised FMEs but lower 
oversight than a registered (retail) FME. 
Registered (retail) FMEs
These FMEs pool money from all investors or a section of the 
investors under one or more schemes and invest that money in 
securities, financial products and other permitted asset classes 
through retail or restricted schemes. Registered (retail) FMEs 
may act as investment managers for public offers of investment 
trusts, i.e., REITs and InvITs. They can also launch exchange-
traded funds (ETFs). 
Further , such FMEs can undertake all activities as permitted by 
authorised FMEs and registered (non-retail) FMEs. A registered 
(retail) FME is subjected to a higher level of regulatory 
oversight.  
2. Who can set up an FME? 
1	 An entity can register as a company, LLP or branch thereof 
or any other form as may be permitted by the Authority by 
establishing a presence in an IFSC.  
2	 Registered FME (retail) is not permitted to be formed as an 
LLP or its branch.  
3	 The branch structure is permitted only for an FME that is 
already registered and/or regulated by a financial sector 
regulator in India or a foreign jurisdiction for conducting 
similar activities. An FME operating as a branch structure in 
an IFSC is expected to comply with prescribed conditions10.  
4	 The memorandum of association in case of a company or 
the LLP agreement in case of an LLP shall permit it to carry 
on the activity of fund management.  
5	 A registered FME (retail) with at least four directors, with at 
least	50%	of	the	directors	being	independent	directors	and	
not associated with the FME  
10. a) The entity shall adequately ring fence the operations of the branch in IFSC.
     b)  The entity shall comply with the minimum net worth requirements specified in these regulations for its activities in the IFSC, which may be maintained at the parent level.
     c)  The entity shall maintain such minimum capital as may be specified by the Authority, which shall at all times be earmarked for the IFSC and may be held in the jurisdiction of its incorporation.
     d) Any other requirements as may be specified by the Authority from time to time.

[PAGE 26]
26  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
3.  What are the net worth requirements 
for setting up an FME? 
An entity seeking registration as an FME must at all times 
comply with the net worth requirements as specified below:  
Type of FME Minimum net worth requirements 
Authorised FME USD 75,000
Registered (non-retail) FME USD 500,000
Registered (retail) FME USD 1,000,000
In case an FME operates as a branch, it would suffice if the 
parent entity complied with the condition. However , the parent 
entity shall ensure that adequate funds are available for the 
branch for its day-to-day operations. 
4.  What are the permissible activities for 
FME?
1 Authorised FME 
 – Managing venture capital schemes  
 – Managing family investment fund  
2 Registered FME (non-retail) 
 – Managing restricted schemes  
 – Acting as an investment manager of investment trusts 
(REITs and InvITs) offered under a private placement 
 – Portfolio management services (including services for 
multi-family offices) 
 – All activities permitted to authorised FMEs 
3 Registered FME (retail) 
 – Managing retail or restricted schemes  
 – Acting as an investment manager of investment trusts 
(REITs and InvITs) offered to the public 
 – Launching exchange-traded funds  
 – All activities permitted to authorised FMEs and registered 
FMEs (non-retail)
5.  What are the permissible investments 
under fund management? 
1 For venture capital (VC) schemes 
 – Primarily investment in unlisted securities of start-ups, 
emerging or early-stage venture capital undertakings 
(VCUs) mainly involved in new products, new services, 
technology or intellectual property rights and includes 
angel funds  
 – Listed/unlisted securities (other than the above), 
investment in LLP , money market instruments, debt 
securities, securitised debt instruments, other venture 
capital schemes, units of mutual funds/alternative 
investment funds (AIFs), etc.  
2 Restricted schemes (non-retail) 
 – Investment, either in start-ups, early-stage ventures, social 
ventures, SMEs, infrastructure or other sectors that the 
government considers as socially/economically desirable 
and includes venture capital funds, SME funds, social 
venture funds, infrastructure funds, ESG funds, and 
special situation funds  
 – Listed/unlisted securities (other than the above), 
investment in LLP , money market instruments, debt 
securities, securitised debt instruments, other schemes, 
derivatives (including commodity derivatives), units of 
mutual funds/AIFs, etc.  
 – A	close-ended	scheme	may	invest	up	to	20%	of	the	
corpus in physical assets such as real estate, bullion, art 
or any other physical asset as may be specified by the 
Authority from time to time 
3 Retail schemes  
 – Listed/unlisted securities, money market instruments, debt 
securities, securitised debt instruments, other investment 
schemes, derivatives (including commodity derivatives), 
units of mutual funds and AIFs, etc.  

[PAGE 27]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  2 7   
Conditions for funds set up under different schemes: 
Particulars Venture capital schemes Restricted schemes (non-retail) Retail schemes
Borrowing and 
leverage 
Permissible without limit, subject to disclosure in the PPM and consent of 2/3rd of 
the investors by value 
Borrowing permissible only to meet 
temporary liquidity needs subject to 
prescribed conditions 
Investment in 
unlisted entities
No restrictions, primarily on 
investment in unlisted securities
• Open-ended	scheme:	Max	25%	of	the	
corpus 
• Close-ended scheme: No restrictions
• Open-ended	scheme:	Max	15%	of	
the asset under management (AUM) 
• Close-ended	scheme:	Max	50%	of	
AUM
Co-investment Permissible, subject to conditions Permissible, subject to conditions NA
Corpus Min:  USD 5 million (approx. 
INR 40 crore) 
Max:  USD 200 million (approx. 
INR 1,600 crore)
Min: USD 5 million (approx. 
INR 40 crore) 
Max: NA
Min: USD 5 million (approx. 
INR 40 crore) 
Max: NA
Eligible 
investors
• Accredited investors (to be defined 
by the IFSCA soon); and/or 
• Investors investing above USD 
250,000	(approx.	INR	2	crore)	
(USD	60,000	(approx.	INR	48	lakh)	
for employees/directors of FME)
• Accredited investors (to be defined by 
IFSCA soon); and/or 
• Investors	investing	above	USD	150,000	
(approx.	INR	1.20	crore)		
(USD	40,000	(approx.	INR	32	lakh)	for	
employees/directors of FME)
• Open-ended scheme: No restrictions 
• Close-ended scheme: No restrictions 
(USD	10,000	(approx.	INR	8	lakh)	in	
case investment in unlisted securities 
exceeds	15%	of	the	AUM)
Minimum no. of 
investors
NA NA Min 20 investors  
Single	investor	–	max	25%	of	AUM
Green channel Possible Possible if all are accredited investors NA
Maximum no. of 
investors
50 investors 1,000 investors No restrictions
Taxation To be construed as Category I AIF To be construed as Category I/II/III AIF, 
depending upon the investment theme
To be taxed depending upon the 
investment theme 
Scheme type 
and tenure
• Open-ended scheme: NA 
• Close-ended scheme: Min tenure 
of three years
• Open-ended scheme: No restrictions 
• Close-ended scheme: Minimum tenure 
of one year
• Open-ended scheme: No restrictions 
• Close-ended scheme: Minimum 
tenure of one year
‘Skin-in-
the-game’ 
contribution 
by FME or its 
associate11
Targeted corpus (TC) is less than USD 
30 million (approx. INR 240 crore): At 
least	2.5%	of	the	targeted	corpus	and	
not	exceeding	10%	of	the	targeted	
corpus 
 
TC is more than USD 30 million: At 
least USD 750,000 (approx. INR 6 
crore)	and	not	exceeding	10%	of	the	
targeted corpus
In the case of a close-ended scheme: 
• TC	is	less	than	USD	30	million:	At	least	
2.5%	of	the	targeted	corpus	and	not	
exceeding	10%	of	the	targeted	corpus	
• TC	is	more	than	USD	30	million:	At	least	
USD	750,000	and	not	exceeding	10%	of	
the targeted corpus
In the case of an open-ended scheme: 
• TC	is	less	than	USD	30	million:	At	least	
5%	of	the	targeted	corpus	and	not	
exceeding	10%	of	the	targeted	corpus	
• TC	is	more	than	USD	30	million:	At	least	
USD	1.5	million	(approx.	INR	12	crore)	
and	not	exceeding	10%	of	the	targeted	
corpus
• Lower	of	1%	of	the	AUM	or	USD	
200,000	(approx.	INR	1.6	crore)
Investment in 
associates
Permissible,	subject	to	prior	approval	of	75%	of	investors	in	the	scheme	by	value Max	25%	of	the	AUM
11.  To be made in proportion to the investor’s investment in the scheme within 45 days (could be extended subject to the satisfaction of IFSCA) and maintained on an ongoing basis. Contribution 
by the FME shall be included for the purpose of its net worth requirement. Such contribution by the FME is not mandatory in case of relocation of funds/schemes established, incorporated or 
registered outside India to IFSC. Further , the said mandatory contribution should be exempted if:
    (a) At least two-third (2/3rd) of the investors in the scheme by value permit waiver of such contribution
    (b) At least two-third (2/3rd) of the investors in the scheme are accredited investors 
    (c) The scheme is a fund-of-fund scheme investing in another scheme that has similar requirements

[PAGE 28]
28  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
Our comments
With the introduction of the new FME Regulations, the 
government has provided a comprehensive and consistent 
regulatory framework for funds proposed to be set up in 
the IFSC GIFT City. These regulations are in line with the 
best international practices in other leading jurisdictions 
such as Singapore, Luxembourg, Ireland, etc.  
As per the present tax regime, funds that are set up and 
managed from the IFSC GIFT City shall enjoy the lower 
setup and operational costs, tax incentives for the fund 
and the fund manager and the tax certainty relating to 
permanent establishment (PE) risk compared to typical 
India-focused funds that are set up in an offshore 
jurisdiction. Thus, given the flexible regulatory regime 
and cost efficiency of setting units in an IFSC, the fund 
management activity in an IFSC is gaining significant 
traction. 
Expert comment
“ The new regulatory framework lays 
a special focus on ease of doing 
business to attract more global/local 
investors and funds to be set up in the 
IFSC GIFT City. Given the inherent 
flexibility provided in the regulatory 
framework for fund management 
activities sought to be undertaken, 
several large global/local fund houses 
are looking to be present in the 
IFSC GIFT City considering its huge 
business potential.” 
Amit Kedia
Chartered Accountant
Mumbai

[PAGE 29]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  2 9   
X. Aircraft leasing in IFSC  
Background 
In recent years, India has emerged as a major market for global 
aircraft supplies. The aircraft financing and leasing industry 
has developed significantly over a period of time worldwide. 
There has been unprecedented growth in the Indian aviation 
sector over the past decade, with exponential acceleration in 
the last five years. Domestic passenger traffic is reported to 
have	risen	at	a	compounded	annual	growth	rate	of	10.76%	
during	the	periods	2007-08	and	2017-18,	and	international	
passenger	traffic	grew	at	an	8.32%	compound	annual	growth	
rate (CAGR) during the same period. Presently, India has 
the third-largest order for aircraft booked globally, and the 
commercial	fleet	size	is	expected	to	exceed	5,000	aircraft	by	
2050.	
Given the high purchase cost of aircraft, lease arrangements 
have been popularly used by aircraft operators to manage 
their operational costs. For this, Indian aircraft operators are 
relying on foreign lessors to finance the acquisition of the 
aircraft.  
Currently, countries like Ireland, the USA, China, Singapore 
and Hong Kong have become global hubs for this industry 
by setting up an effective regulatory environment to facilitate 
aircraft lease and financing. The success of these jurisdictions 
is owed to the concessional tax regimes, favourable accounting 
rules and stable business environment.   
In order to make India an aviation hub and develop the aircraft 
leasing and financing business in India, a working group on 
developing avenues for aircraft financing and leasing activities 
in India was constituted by the Ministry of Civil Aviation in 
May	2018.	The	working	group	had	identified	the	International	
Financial Services Centre (IFSC) in the Gujarat International 
Finance Tec-city (GIFT City) as the location to onshore the 
offshore aviation leasing business in India.  
The committee published the report ‘Project Rupee Raftaar’ in 
January	2019 ,	which	recommended	structural	changes	and	
incentives to make IFSCs at par with the above jurisdictions. 
The	Union	Finance	Minister ,	in	the	Budget	speech	in	2019 ,	also	
recognised the potential of aircraft financing and leasing 
activities from Indian shores to develop a self-reliant aviation 
industry and create aspirational jobs in aviation finance.  
In order to undertake the aforesaid activity, the government 
of India (GOI) notified ‘aircraft lease’ as an eligible financial 
product, which includes operating and financial lease and any 
hybrid of operating and financial lease of aircraft/helicopter/
engines of aircraft or helicopter or any part thereof, under 
the	IFSCA	Act,	2019 .	Further ,	GOI,	in	the	past	few	years,	has	
announced several tax incentives to promote aircraft leasing in 
an IFSC. In order to operationalise the aircraft leasing business 
in India, the IFSCA provided a framework to enable aircraft 
operating	leases	from	an	IFSC	in	India	in	February	2021.	The	
IFSCA also specified an operating lease (including a hybrid of 
operating and financial lease) in respect of ‘aircraft ground 
support equipment’ as one of the permitted activities.  
Further ,	on	18	May	2022,	the	IFSCA	prescribed	a	detailed	
regulatory framework for aircraft lease under the IFSCA 
(Finance	Company)	Regulations	2021,	so	that	aircraft	leasing	
activity could be undertaken from the IFSC GIFT City. 
Regulatory framework for 
aircraft leasing 
• In order to carry out transactions in aircraft leasing, an 
entity needs to be registered as a ‘finance company’ 
or ‘finance unit’ as per the IFSCA (Finance Company) 
Regulations,	2021	(‘Finance	Company	Regulations’).	
• As per the Finance Company Regulations, an operating 
lease transaction for an aircraft lease is classified as 
a ‘permitted non-core activity,’ and a finance lease 
transaction for an aircraft lease is classified as a ‘permitted 
core activity,’ which includes a hybrid of finance lease and 
operating lease transactions.  

[PAGE 30]
30  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
Who can act as a lessor in 
IFSC? 
• An entity registered with IFSCA as a ‘finance company’ or 
a ‘finance unit’ in accordance with the Finance Company 
Regulations and:  
a Engaged in the business of providing aircraft or helicopter 
and engines of aircraft or helicopter or any other part 
thereof and/or aircraft ground support equipment under 
an operating lease, financial lease and/or a hybrid of the 
financial and operating lease  
b Any other related activity as may be specified by the 
IFSCA from time to time 
Eligibility criteria for the lessor 
• An entity desirous of setting up operations in an IFSC can 
establish a unit by way of either a company, a limited 
liability partnership (LLP), a trust or in any other form as 
may be specified by the IFSCA, along with meeting the 
eligibility criteria and other requirements as specified under 
the Finance Company Regulations. Moreover , the promoter/
partners/trustee, as the case may be, of the aforesaid entity 
shall be located in a FATF-compliant jurisdiction. 
• An entity in an IFSC intending to undertake aircraft lease 
only through its wholly-owned subsidiary/subsidiaries 
(WOS) set up in an IFSC shall also be deemed to be a lessor 
under this framework, and it may make an application for 
registration accordingly. 
Capital requirement for lessors 
• A	minimum	owned	fund	of	USD	200,000	(in	case	of	
operating	lease)/USD	3	million	(in	case	of	finance	lease)	or	
its equivalent in freely convertible foreign currency is to be 
maintained at all times by the entity undertaking operating/
finance lease transactions, respectively.  
Permissible activities under the 
operating lease: 
A lessor is permitted to undertake all or any of the following 
activities: 
1	 Operating lease for an aircraft lease arrangement, 
including sale and leaseback, purchase, novation, transfer , 
assignment and other similar transactions in relation to 
aircraft lease 
2	 Operating lease for an aircraft ground support equipment 
3	 Asset management support services for assets owned or 
leased out by the entity or by its WOS set up in IFSCs in 
India 
4	 Any other related activity with the prior approval of the 
IFSCA  
Permissible activities under the 
finance lease
A lessor is permitted to undertake all or any of the following 
activities: 
1	 Financial lease or a hybrid of the financial and operating 
lease for an aircraft lease arrangement, including sale and 
leaseback, purchase, novation, transfer , assignment and 
other similar transactions in relation to aircraft lease 
2	 Financial lease or any hybrid of the financial and operating 
lease for an aircraft ground support equipment 
3	 Permitted activities as stated under the operating lease 
4	 Any other related activity with the prior approval of the 
IFSCA 

[PAGE 31]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  3 1   
Key tax advantages 
(other than generic deductions 
available) 
• Any income earned by a non-resident by way of royalty or 
interest on account of the lease of an aircraft paid by a unit 
in an IFSC shall be exempt from tax, subject to these units 
commencing	operations	on	or	before	31	March	2024.		
• No withholding of tax is required to be made on payment 
in the nature of lease rent or supplemental lease rent made 
by a lessee to a lessor being a unit located in an IFSC for 
the lease of an aircraft subject to the fulfilment of certain 
prescribed conditions. 
• Aircraft is a depreciable asset for a unit in an IFSC that owns 
it. Depreciation on aircraft and aircraft engines is allowed 
at	40%	on	the	written-down	value	(WDV)	basis.	Unabsorbed	
depreciation can be carried forward to the subsequent 
years to be set off against future profits without any time 
limit. 
• Capital gains arising on the transfer of aircraft or aircraft 
engines	would	be	eligible	for	a	100%	profit-linked	deduction	
(for	any	10	consecutive	years	out	of	the	first	15	years	of	
operations) subject to the unit commencing its operations on 
or	before	31	March	2024.
• Capital gains arising on the sale of equity shares of an IFSC 
unit engaged in aircraft leasing to a non-resident or another 
IFSC unit engaged in aircraft leasing are exempt, subject to 
satisfying the prescribed conditions.
Our comments
The future of aircraft leasing from India is not only 
promising but on the verge of revolution. Currently, India 
is participating as a consumer of international financial 
services for financing its acquisition of aircraft on a lease 
basis. As the world’s third-largest domestic aviation market, 
the time is ripe for India to enter into aircraft financing 
and leasing activities from Indian shores. There is a huge 
business opportunity in India in terms of financing and 
leasing aircraft, especially to Indian carriers. In order to 
tap this massive opportunity, the IFSCA has developed 
an effective regulatory mechanism to enable aircraft 
financing and leasing from the IFSC GIFT City. Tax and 
other incentives, coupled with a cost-effective workforce 
available in India, could further aid in making the IFSC 
GIFT City a hub for aircraft leasing activity. 
• Dividend income received by a unit in an IFSC engaged in 
aircraft leasing from another unit in an IFSC also engaged 
in aircraft leasing is exempt.
Other advantage
• A unit in an IFSC authorised to undertake aircraft leasing 
activity has been granted permission to utilise office space 
or manpower , or both of another unit set up in an IFSC 
authorised to undertake aircraft leasing activity, as may be 
approved by the IFSCA.

[PAGE 32]
32  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
XI.  IFSC Insurance Office 
(IIO) and IFSC Insurance 
Intermediary Office (IIIO)  
Background 
• Insurance is a global business and an important segment 
for economic development, global economic integration 
and	growing	international	trade.	There	are	more	than	250	
operational special economic zones in India. Industrial 
estates, free ports, large-scale international businesses and 
multinational corporations are also operational in special 
economic zones. The presence of these businesses opens 
immense opportunities for the insurance business.
IFSC Insurance Office 
Regulatory framework  
• Insurers/reinsurers desirous of setting up an IIO are required 
to obtain a licence from IFSCA.  
• Further , a foreign insurer/reinsurer should be registered 
or licenced for transacting an insurance or reinsurance 
business, or both, in its home country or country of its 
incorporation or domicile.  
• An Indian insurer or reinsurer12 can set up a place of 
business in an IFSC, and a foreign insurer or foreign 
reinsurer or MGA or Lloyd’s, as the case may be, can set up 
a branch in an IFSC. 
Regulatory requirements 
The IIO is required to follow the basic regulatory requirements, 
which are summarised as under: 
Assigned capital   
A	minimum	of	USD	1.5	million	(equivalent	in	any	freely	
convertible foreign currency) is required to be maintained by 
an Indian insurer desirous of setting up a place of business or a 
foreign insurer/reinsurer or Lloyd’s13	or managing general agent 
(MGA) desirous of setting up a branch office in an IFSC. 
Net owned fund (NOF14)
NOF	of	not	less	than	INR	1,000	crore	(equivalent	in	any	freely	
convertible foreign currency) is required to be maintained in 
cases where the applicant in an IFSC is a foreign company 
engaged in reinsurance business through a branch established 
in an IFSC.  
Paid-up equity capital
A	minimum	of	INR	100	crore,	in	case	of	a	person	carrying	on	
the business of life insurance, health insurance or general 
insurance, is required to be maintained by a public company, 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of an insurer or a reinsurer and an 
insurance co operative society or a body corporate seeking 
registration from the IFSCA.  
A	minimum	paid-up	equity	capital	of	INR	200	crore	is	required	
to be maintained for a company exclusively carrying on the 
business as a reinsurer in an IFSC. 
Solvency margin
Any applicant registering an IIO in an IFSC is required to 
maintain a solvency margin for its IIO, as stipulated by its home 
country regulatory or supervisory authority or the IFSCA, as 
applicable. Further , such solvency margin may be maintained 
in the home country, country of incorporation or domicile, 
and the asset backing such solvency margin shall be invested 
as per the requirements of its home country regulatory or 
supervisory authority and remain unencumbered at all times as 
prescribed. 
The applicant registering an IIO as the place of business of 
an Indian insurer or branch of any foreign insurer or reinsurer 
shall submit a quarterly certificate on the maintenance of the 
solvency margin duly certified by its appointed actuary.  
Key permissible activities 
An IIO may carry any of the following class of businesses as 
may be permitted by the IFSCA subject to certain conditions:  
1	 Life insurance business 
2	 General insurance business 
3	 Health insurance business 
4	 Reinsurance business 
5	 Such other insurance or reinsurance business-related 
services as may be specified by the IFSCA, subject to 
obtaining prior approval of the IFSCA 
12.  Insurers/reinsurers being applicants at IFSC means an existing ‘insurer’ registered with the IRDAI, a foreign insurer/reinsurer , the Society of Lloyd’s on behalf of the members of Lloyd’s, a branch 
office of foreign insurer or Lloyd’s India registered by the IRDAI, a public company or a wholly-owned subsidiary of an insurer or a reinsurer that is formed and registered under the Companies 
Act, 2013, an insurance co-operative society, a body corporate incorporated under the law of any country outside India not being of the nature of a private company, a managing general agent 
who has a valid binding agreement with a foreign insurer/reinsurer
13. ‘Lloyd’s’ means the society of underwriters known in the United Kingdom as Lloyd’s and incorporated by the Lloyd’s Act 1871 of the United Kingdom 
14. ‘Net owned fund’ or ‘NOF’ means the sum of paid-up equity capital, free reserves and securities premium account reduced by accumulated losses and the book value of intangible assets.

[PAGE 33]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  3 3   
The IIO registered to transact a direct insurance business is 
permitted to do so from within an IFSC, other SEZs and outside 
India. However , it shall not write direct insurance business from 
the DTA as prescribed. Further , the IIO registered to transact 
reinsurance business may accept: 
• Reinsurance business from the cedents based in an IFSC, in 
relation to risk emanating from other SEZs and reinsurance 
business from outside India 
• Reinsurance business from the insurers operating in DTA 
in accordance with the order of preference for cession 
specified	in	the	IRDAI	(Re-insurance)	Regulations,	2018.	
IFSC Insurance Intermediary 
Office 
Key regulatory requirements 
To operationalise insurance intermediaries in IFSCs, a 
regulatory framework focusing on the ease of doing business 
has been issued by the IFSCA to permit an insurance 
intermediary to undertake activities relating to the insurance 
business. 
Following insurance intermediaries can register and obtain a 
licence from IFSCA:  
1.  Insurance distributor: 
a Composite broker 
b Corporate agent 
c Direct broker 
d Reinsurance broker 
2.  Insurance claim service provider: 
a Surveyor and loss assessor 
b Third-party administrator  
• An applicant already registered as an intermediary or 
insurance intermediary with the IRDAI in India and desirous 
of setting up a branch office in an IFSC shall meet the 
following conditions: 
a It holds a valid certificate of registration issued by IRDAI, 
which is not withdrawn, cancelled or suspended. 
b It has acted as an insurance intermediary in such 
category for which it is registered. 
c It has obtained a “no-objection certificate” from IRDAI to 
establish a branch office in an IFSC. 
• An applicant registered or licenced as an insurance 
intermediary outside India and desirous of setting up a 
branch office in an IFSC shall meet the following conditions: 
a It holds a valid certificate of registration issued by its 
home country regulatory or supervisory authority, which 
is not withdrawn, cancelled or suspended. 
b It has acted as an insurance intermediary in such 
category for which it is registered.  
c It is from a FATF-compliant jurisdiction or country. 
d It is registered or certified in a national regulatory 
environment, and the government of India has signed a 
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement with it. 
e It has obtained a ‘no-objection certificate’ from its home 
country regulatory or supervisory body to establish a 
branch office in an IFSC. 
• An applicant that is not covered above and which is a 
company	incorporated	under	the	Companies	Act,	2013	or	
either a firm, a co-operative society or a body corporate 
incorporated under the law of any country outside India 
desirous of setting up a company, co-operative society, LLP 
and any other legal form, as specified by the IFSCA, shall 
meet the following requirements: 
a It shall have the minimum prescribed paid-up equity 
capital or net worth, as may be applicable. 
b It shall be from a FATF-compliant jurisdiction or a country. 
c It is registered or certified in a national regulatory 
environment, and the government of India has signed a 
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement with it.  
Permissible activities
The IIIO shall exclusively carry on the business for which the 
registration has been granted and in the manner specified 
by the Authority. All financial transactions of the IIIO shall be 
carried out in a freely convertible foreign currency other than 
the Indian Rupee. The IIIO may perform any of the following 
activities: 
• A direct insurance broker is permitted to perform the 
activities of direct insurance business from and within 
an IFSC, from other SEZs in India and from outside India. 
However , the IIIO registered to solicit a direct insurance 
broker shall not solicit direct insurance business from the 
Domestic Tariff Area (DTA) in India as prescribed. 
• A composite broker or reinsurance broker is permitted to 
perform the activities of a reinsurance broker or composite 

[PAGE 34]
34  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
Our comments
The IFSCA is undertaking efforts to boost global 
investments in the IFSC GIFT City, and the country could 
become a reinsurance hub with the introduction of a new 
liberal regulatory regime for the reinsurance business. 
Foreign insurers and reinsurers, which are presently 
not present in India, can also set up IIOs to undertake 
insurance or reinsurance business from the IFSC. Indian 
insurance and reinsurance companies, including the 
foreign reinsurance branches registered with the IRDAI, 
can also set up branch offices to undertake insurance or 
reinsurance business from an IFSC. Further , to boost the 
establishment of branch offices as IIOs, units in the IFSC 
GIFT City may not be mandatorily required to bring the 
minimum capital into an IFSC, and the same could be 
maintained at the head office level. 
The key benefits of setting up IIOs are that they provide 
entities with the opportunity to save cost at an enterprise 
level, access skilled and employable talent pool in India 
and access a huge Indian market.  
The global reinsurance market in terms of net written 
premium	was	worth	USD	137 .159	billion	in	2020,	whereas	
the	forecast	for	2026	is	USD	354.540	billion.	The	new	
IFSCA regulations on the registration of insurance 
businesses and insurance intermediaries would help an 
IFSC to expand its share of the global reinsurance market 
on a consistent basis.  
Given the above benefits and value proposition posed by 
the IFSC GIFT City, we believe that this would help India 
develop into a global reinsurance hub competing with 
various offshore financial centres globally. 
broker within an IFSC, in other SEZs in India, DTA and outside 
India. 
• The third-party administrators (TPAs), surveyors and loss 
assessors registered as IIIO shall not render services for the 
policies other than those issued by an IIO, and an insurer 
domiciled outside India. However , a TPA is permitted to 
service foreign travel policies and health policies issued by 
Indian insurers covering medical treatment or hospitalisation 
outside India.

[PAGE 35]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  3 5   
XII.  International Bullion 
Exchange in IFSC
Background 
Currently, India has a few commodity exchanges and operates 
as futures exchanges, which are primarily used to hedge 
against gold price risk and take proprietary positions on 
gold price movement. On the other hand, a spot exchange 
focuses on price discovery, and hence, provides the entire 
ecosystem around physical deliveries. Thus, there was a need 
for setting up a bullion exchange, which would provide an 
efficient and trusted ecosystem for trading gold with an aim to 
improve market transparency, protect the interests of market 
participants and facilitate India to emerge as a price setter for 
gold. 
On	31	August	2020,	the	GOI	notified	the	bullion	spot	delivery	
contract and bullion depository receipt (with bullion as 
underlying) as financial products and related services as 
financial	services	under	the	IFSC	Authority	(IFSCA)	Act,	2019 .		
Subsequently,	the	IFSCA	on	4	December	2020,	notified	the	
IFSCA	(Bullion	Exchange)	Regulations,	2020,	to	provide	a	
framework for recognition of bullion exchanges, their clearing 
corporations, depositories and vaults. The Bullion Exchange 
Regulations envisage providing an integrated platform for all 
the market intermediaries, including trading members/clearing 
members, bullion depositories, vault managers, etc., to facilitate 
transparency and traceability in the bullion market and 
standardisation of bullion contracts. 
Operating guidelines on Bullion Exchange, Bullion Clearing 
Corporation, Bullion Depository and Vault Manager were 
issued	by	the	IFSCA	in	August	2021.	
The India International Bullion Exchange (IIBX) IFSC Limited 
was set up as an international bullion exchange in IFSC and 
has been recognised by the IFSCA as a Bullion Exchange and 
Bullion Clearing Corporation.  
Regulatory framework for 
International Bullion Exchange 
in IFSC 
What is bullion? 
Bullion has been defined to mean precious metals, including 
gold, silver or any other precious metal in the form of bars 
or unallocated gold, silver or such other precious metals as 
the Authority may consider relevant in this regard, relating 
to a good delivery, quality, quantity and any other aspect in 
relation to bullion trading, from time to time.   
What is the meaning of a financial 
product and financial services? 
Financial product Financial services 
A	Bullion	spot	delivery	contract	is	defined	
to mean a contract that provides for the 
following: 
1	 Actual delivery of bullion and the 
payment of a price therefor , either 
on the same day as the date of the 
contract or on the next day, the actual 
period for the delivery of the bullion or 
the remittance money, therefore being 
excluded from the computation of the 
period aforesaid if the parties to the 
contract do not reside in the same town 
or locality 
2	 Transfer of the bullion by the 
depositary from the account of a 
beneficial owner to the account of 
another beneficial owner when such 
bullion is dealt with by a depositary 
licenced by the IFSCA for this purpose
Bullion depository receipt (BDR) with 
underlying bullion  
• Defined to mean such bullion 
depository receipt listed on the IBE 
operating inside an IFSC 
1	 Trading in bullion 
depository receipts 
with underlying 
bullion in relation to 
bullion spot delivery 
contracts  
2	 Provision of bullion 
financing, bullion-
based loans, bullion 
loans against 
collateral, bullion 
vaulting, clearing 
and settlement 
services in relation to 
bullion spot delivery 
contracts and bullion 
depository receipts

[PAGE 36]
36  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
Key participants and their eligibility  
Who can become members of the bullion 
exchange? 
Following entities are eligible to become members of the bullion exchange 
for trading in BDR with underlying bullion:  
• Banking units at IFSC (IBUs) 
• Subsidiaries/branches of entities dealing with financial products set up 
in an IFSC 
• Banks authorised by RBI and nominated agencies authorised by the 
Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) to deal in bullion 
Eligibility criteria for a member setting up 
operations in IFSC
• Either through a subsidiary or branch or any other mode as permitted 
by the IFSCA 
• Entities proposing to set up shall be from FATF-compliant jurisdictions 
Trading member
• At least one employee having experience of a minimum of three years 
and sound knowledge of the precious metals industry 
Market-making member
• Shall have an established setup in the precious metals industry and 
related experience, knowledge and resources 
• Shall have a membership or licence to operate with any existing 
exchanges or markets with the capacity to execute operations related 
to precious metals 
• Shall have personnel with experience of a minimum of three years and 
sound knowledge in the precious metals industry 
Customers 
The following persons shall be considered as customers for the purpose of 
the guidelines issued by the IFSCA: 
Person resident outside India 
• Qualified	individual	with	a	minimum	net	worth	of	USD	250,000	
• Corporate or institutional entities with a minimum net worth of USD 
500,000	
Person resident in India 
• Corporate or institutional entities (including banks) who are customers 
of nominated banks/agencies 

[PAGE 37]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  3 7   
Key participants in the bullion 
exchange ecosystem  
1 Bullion Exchange
It refers to a financial institution established for the purpose 
of assisting, regulating and controlling bullion contracts in an 
IFSC. 
2 Bullion Clearing Corporation
It refers to a financial institution performing the clearing and 
settlement functions in the bullion market relating to bullion 
contracts in an IFSC. 
3 Bullion Depository
It refers to a financial institution carrying on depository 
business by assisting trading of bullion (through issuing bullion 
depository receipt on the underlying bullion) in electronic form 
on bullion exchange in an IFSC. 
4 Bullion Trading and Clearing member
• A person having trading rights in any bullion exchange is a 
trading member .  
• A person having clearing rights in any recognised bullion 
clearing corporation is a clearing member . 
5 Vault
• It refers to the premises where the vault manager takes 
custody of the bullion deposited by the depositor and 
includes a place for storage of the bullion.
Our comments
The International Bullion Exchange shall be the ‘Gateway 
for Bullion Imports into India,’ wherein all the bullion 
imports for domestic consumption shall be channelised 
through this exchange. With the regulations pertaining to 
bullion exchange and intermediaries already being issued 
by the IFSCA, the same should result in the evolvement 
of a robust bullion ecosystem, which should aid India in 
providing an efficient price discovery mechanism for gold. 
In addition to this, the bullion exchange in the IFSC GIFT 
City would also provide assurance in the quality of gold 
and enable greater integration with other segments of 
financial markets, which will help establish India’s position 
as a dominant bullion trading hub in the world.  

[PAGE 38]
38  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
XIII.  Ship leasing in IFSC  
Background 
Maritime transport is the backbone of international trade and 
the global economy. The Ministry of Shipping has estimated 
that	about	95%	of	Indian	goods’	trade	by	volume	and	70%	
by	value	is	done	through	maritime	transport.	In	June	2021,	
the IFSCA constituted a committee to examine the global 
best practices in financing and leasing of ships, identify 
opportunities and devise a roadmap to enable such activities 
from	IFSC.	The	committee	submitted	its	report	in	October	2021	
to the IFSCA with the primary objective of enabling the seeding 
of a robust Ship Acquisition, Financing and Leasing (SAFAL) 
regime at the IFSCs. The report comprises a set of critical 
and necessary changes required to be made in the tax, legal 
and regulatory framework relating to ships, ship finance and 
shipping services in an IFSC.  
Post successful enablement of the activity of aircraft leasing 
through the issuance of Framework for Aircraft Lease, the 
IFSCA, after evaluating the potential of ship leasing in the 
context of ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat,’ aims to provide an enabling 
regulatory framework for promoting an IFSC as a hub for 
international ship leasing and financing business. Based on the 
recommendations of the SAFAL report, the IFSCA-specified ‘ship 
lease’ includes the operating lease and a hybrid of operating 
and financial lease of a ship or ocean vessel, engine of a ship 
or ocean vessel or any other part thereof as a financial product 
under the IFSCA Act.  
The activity of ship leasing is one of the permitted activities 
under	the	IFSCA	(Finance	Company)	Regulations,	2021.	
To operationalise the said activity, IFSCA has issued the 
‘Framework	for	Ship	Lease’	vide	Circular	dated	16	August	2022.	
The framework covers guidelines on:  
1	 Operating lease 
2	 Financial lease (including a hybrid of financial and 
operating lease)  
of a ship or ocean vessel, engine of a ship or ocean vessel or 
any other part thereof   
As per the framework, an entity intending to undertake ship 
leasing activity in an IFSC shall be registered as a finance 
company/unit, as per the IFSCA (Finance Company) 
Regulations,	2021.	
Regulatory framework for ship 
leasing in an IFSC 
The key terms as per the framework: 
Lessor It includes an entity registered with IFSCA as a 
finance	company	or	finance	unit	in	accordance	with	
this framework, and 
a.  Engaged in the business of providing ships or 
ocean vessels and engines of ship or ocean 
vessels, or any other part thereof under an 
operating	lease,	financial	lease	and/or	a	hybrid	of	
a	financial	and	operating	lease	
b.		Any	other	related	activity	as	may	be	specified	by	
the Authority from time to time
Ocean vessel It includes every description of watercraft used or 
capable of being used in the marine environment, 
such	as	a	ship,	boat,	sailing	vessel,	fishing	vessel,	
submersible, semi-submersible, hydrofoils, non-
displacement crafts, amphibious crafts, wing-in-
ground crafts, pleasure crafts, barges, lighters, 
mobile	offshore	drilling	units,	mobile	offshore	units,	
or of any other description   or any part thereof 
and shall include inland water vessels and coasting 
vessels	but	does	not	include	fishing	or	sailing	
watercraft.
Ship It includes any watercraft used or capable of being 
used in navigation by its own propulsion in, above 
or	under	the	water	but	does	not	include	fishing	or	
sailing watercraft.
Who is eligible to set up a 
business under the ship leasing 
framework?
1	 An entity in the form of either a company, a limited liability 
partnership (LLP), a trust, a branch under this framework or 
in any other form as may be specified by the IFSCA from 
time to time
2	 In the case of a company, the promoter , as defined in the 
Companies	Act,	2013	of	the	applicant	entity,	shall	be	
located in a Financial Action Task Force (FATF)-compliant 
jurisdiction. 

[PAGE 39]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  3 9   
3	 In the case of an LLP or a trust, the partners or the trustees, 
as the case may be, shall also comply with the above 
requirement.
4	 All entities set up in an IFSC for carrying out permitted 
activities as envisaged in the framework shall comply with 
all requirements, exceptions, regulations and conditions 
imposed by any applicable statute, including the Merchant 
Shipping	Act	1958.
5	 Entities desirous of undertaking permissible activities as a 
lessor can submit an application form to the IFSCA to obtain 
a certificate of registration from the IFSCA under Finance 
Company Regulations.
Capital requirement for lessors
A	minimum	owned	fund	of	USD	200,000	(in	case	of	operating	
lease)/USD	3	million	(in	case	of	finance	lease)	or	its	equivalent	
in freely convertible foreign currency is to be maintained at 
all times by an entity undertaking operating/finance lease 
transactions, respectively. 
Permissible activities under the operating 
lease 
1	 A lessor in IFSCs is permitted to undertake all or any of the 
following activities:
i.  Operating lease
ii.  Voyage charters, contract of affreightments, employment 
in shipping pools and all other legal commercial 
transactions for the employment of ships
iii.  Asset management support services for assets owned or 
leased out by the lessor or by any of its group entities set 
up in IFSCs in India
iv.  Sale and lease back, purchase, novation, transfer , 
assignment and such other similar transactions in relation 
to ship lease
v.  Any other related activity with the prior approval of the 
IFSCA
2	 A transaction shall be classified as a lease if it is in 
accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS 
116)	on	Leases.	All	transactions	undertaken	by	a	lessor	shall	
be in a freely convertible foreign currency only.
15.  Committee report for Ship Acquisition, Financing and Leasing from IFSC – October 2021
Permissible activities under the finance 
lease
1	 A lessor in IFSCs is permitted to undertake all or any of the 
following activities:
 – Financial lease
 – A hybrid of financial and operating lease
 – Permitted activities under the operating lease of this 
framework
 – Any other related activity with the prior approval of the 
IFSCA
2	 A transaction shall be classified as a lease if it is in 
accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS 
116)	on	leases.	All	transactions	undertaken	by	a	lessor	shall	
be in a freely convertible foreign currency only.
Our comments
This is a welcome move towards developing a global 
shipping industry in India. The legal framework for 
ship leasing in the IFSC GIFT City will be helpful for 
international players to participate in the ship leasing 
business for cross-border functionality for a transaction 
involving multiple jurisdictions and tax efficiencies. It would 
also attract ship owners and charterers to set up their 
place of operations in India rather than setting up their 
shipping bases offshore.
India, which has a huge export-import trade, is a country 
of charterers and not shipowners, thereby resulting in 
substantial	spending	of	around	USD	75	billion	annually	
for chartering foreign flag vessels for India’s international 
trade15. Fostering the development of ship leasing, 
financing and owning in the IFSC GIFT City will also serve 
as the foundation for unleashing the employment and 
output multipliers on the shipping industry and the Indian 
economy and also help the country save on precious 
foreign currency.

[PAGE 40]
40  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
XIV.  Ancillary services 
framework  
Background 
Considering the importance of service providers in the 
development of any robust financial ecosystem, the IFSCA, 
in	February	2021,	issued	a	framework	for	enabling	ancillary	
services framework in an IFSC. This framework is applicable 
to all ancillary service providers engaged in one or more 
permissible ancillary services within an IFSC. It may be noted 
that	vide	the	Union	Budget	2023,	it	is	proposed	to	amend	the	
IFSCA Act to include statutory provisions for ancillary services.
What are ancillary services?
Ancillary services shall mean those services which directly or 
indirectly aid, help, assist or strengthen or are attendant upon 
or connected with the services, as detailed under the IFSCA Act, 
2019 .
What are the permissible ancillary 
services?
The service providers are permitted to engage in any one or 
more of the following activities under this framework post 
receiving approval from the IFSCA: 
1	 Legal, compliance and secretarial
2	 Auditing, accounting, bookkeeping and taxation services
3	 Professional and management consulting services
4	 Administration, assets management support services and 
trusteeship services
5	 Any other services as approved by the IFSCA from time to 
time
Who are eligible to become 
service providers under the 
ancillary services framework?
The following entities are eligible to act as service providers so 
as to provide permissible ancillary services:
1	 Any existing or newly incorporated entity set up in an IFSC
2	 Any Indian or foreign incorporated entity by establishing a 
branch or a subsidiary
Who are eligible services 
recipients under the ancillary 
services framework?
The following are eligible services recipients under the ancillary 
services framework:
• Entities set up in an IFSC
• Entities from foreign jurisdictions for various permissible 
ancillary services in the IFSCs in India or overseas 
• Indian entities who propose to open, set up or carry out 
operations in IFSCs or foreign jurisdictions, provided 
consideration is received in a freely convertible foreign 
currency 
Our comments
Globally, ancillary services in the form of professional 
services, consultancy firms, audit firms, administrators 
and trustee services play a vital role in the development 
of an international finance centre. Pursuant to this 
framework, global ancillary service providers will be able 
to set up their units in the IFSC GIFT City, which would 
contribute to a holistic development of the financial 
ecosystem in the IFSC GIFT City. A number of consultancy 
firms and law firms have already set up their units in the 
IFSC GIFT City under these regulations to provide eligible 
services to eligible service recipients and have already 
started to contribute to the growth and development of the 
IFSC GIFT City ecosystem.

[PAGE 41]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  4 1   
XV.  Setting up of international 
branch campuses or 
offshore education 
centres in GIFT City  
Background 
Considering the huge demand and potential for foreign 
education in India, the Honorable Finance Minister (FM), in 
her	Budget	2022	speech,	announced	that	world-class	foreign	
universities and institutions would be permitted to offer courses 
related to financial services in the GIFT City. The FM also 
deliberated that such institutions would be exempted from 
domestic regulations, except those by the IFSCA, in order to 
facilitate the availability of high-end human resources for 
financial services and technology. In this regard, the central 
government,	vide	notification	dated	23	May	2022,	notified	the	
courses that can be offered in financial management, fintech, 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics by foreign 
universities or foreign institutions in an IFSC as ‘financial 
services.’
Pursuant to that, the IFSCA, in its endeavour to develop a 
comprehensive regulatory framework for the formation of 
international branch campuses (IBCs) and offshore education 
centres (OECs) by foreign universities or foreign educational 
institutions in the IFSC GIFT City, has issued IFSC (Setting 
up and operation of international branch campuses and 
offshore	education	centres)	Regulations,	2022,	on	11	October	
2022.	These	regulations	aim	at	enabling	foreign	universities/
other foreign educational institutions to set up IBCs/OECs 
in an IFSC for offering courses/programmes in the subject 
areas of financial management, fintech, science, technology, 
engineering, mathematics, etc.
What are the key objectives of 
these regulations?
• To enable foreign universities to establish IBCs on a stand-
alone basis or in such other form as may be permitted by 
the Authority or foreign educational institution other than a 
foreign university to establish an OEC in the IFSC GIFT City
• To make the IFSC GIFT City an international educational 
centre catering to both Indian and foreign students
• To encourage research in the specified disciplines, including 
banking, insurance, capital market, funds management, 
fintech, longevity finance, sustainable finance, quantum 
computing, etc., to provide high-end human resources in 
finance, technology and relevant fields
• To put in place an objective and transparent process for 
the registration of a foreign university/foreign educational 
institution for offering courses that are accredited in their 
respective home jurisdiction and duly recognised by the 
Authority
Key regulatory framework
Applicability
These regulations are applicable to an: 
• IBC of a foreign university 
• OEC of a foreign educational institution 
Who is eligible to set up educational 
institutions?
1	 Foreign university: It should have secured a position within 
the	top	500	in	overall	global	ranking	and/or	subject	ranking	
in the latest QS World University Rankings.
2	 Foreign educational institution: It should be a reputed 
educational institution in its home jurisdiction.
3	 An entity with the financial capability to establish and 
ensure the continuity of the proposed activities in the IFSC 
GIFT City
4	 An entity with suitable infrastructure facilities to conduct the 
courses, including research programmes in the IFSC GIFT 
City

[PAGE 42]
42  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
What are the permissible subject areas?
Educational courses in the field of financial management, 
fintech, science, technology, engineering and mathematics are 
permitted.
What are the non-permissible activities?
Activities relating to acting as a representative office of the 
parent institution for conducting any promotional activities for 
their educational programmes in home jurisdiction or any other 
jurisdiction outside the IFSC GIFT City.
What are the registration requirements 
for IBCs or OECs?
• A foreign university or foreign educational institution 
meeting the eligibility conditions can make an application to 
the IFSCA. 
• The application will be referred to the Committee of Experts 
constituted by the GIFT City for their appraisal and 
recommendation.
• Based on the recommendation, the IFSCA may grant an 
in-principal	approval	to	the	applicant,	giving	it	180	days	
(extension	may	be	granted	for	a	maximum	of	90	days)	to	
set up all required infrastructure and engage necessary 
manpower , etc.
• The Authority may issue a certificate of registration with 
or without conditions for a period of five years (renewable 
for five years at a time with or without any additional 
condition(s)) on being satisfied upon fulfiling the requisite 
conditions.
Recognition of the courses
• The courses or programmes conducted by the applicant 
in the IFSC GIFT City are expected to be identical in all 
respects to the course or programme conducted by the 
parent entity in its home jurisdiction. 
• An identical degree, diploma or certificate will be conferred 
upon the students of the IBC or OEC directly by the parent 
entity in the same manner as it confers to its students for the 
same course or programme in its home jurisdiction. 
• The degree, diploma or certificate issued with respect to 
courses or programmes conducted in the IFSC GIFT City 
enjoy the same recognition and status as if they were 
conducted by the parent entity in its home jurisdiction.
Our comments
The regulation governing the setting up and operations 
of IBCs and OECs in the IFSC GIFT City would attract 
Indian and foreign students to pursue higher education of 
international standards within India at affordable costs. 
Thus, it would help to retain talent within the country and 
create skilled manpower at the IFSC GIFT City.  

[PAGE 43]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  4 3   
XVI. Tax regime for IFSC units 
An IFSC predominantly caters to customers outside the jurisdiction of the domestic economy and deals with the flow of finance, 
products and services across borders. Generally, an IFSC is considered to be a business-friendly zone, and there are certain tax 
incentives available to units operating in an IFSC in India under the Indian tax laws. 
 With successive budget announcements, an IFSC now has an internationally competitive tax regime. To further supplement this, 
the IFSCA is actively engaging with various stakeholders to put in place a modern and internationally benchmarked tax and 
regulatory framework.
Key available tax incentives are outlined below.
Particulars Description
Tax incentives available to all the units 
in an IFSC
• 100%	tax	exemption	for	10	consecutive	years	out	of	15	years.	A	unit	is	provided	with	the	flexibility	to	
select	any	10	consecutive	years	out	of	the	15	years	to	avail	the	benefits.	
• Minimum	alternate	tax	(MAT)/alternate	minimum	tax(AMT)	at	9%	of	book	profits	is	applicable	to	a	
unit in an IFSC subject to prescribed conditions. 
• MAT/AMT is not applicable to a person opting for the new tax regime. 
• Interest income payable to a non-resident arising on long-term bonds or rupee-denominated bonds 
listed	only	on	a	recognised	stock	exchange	in	an	IFSC	is	chargeable	at	the	reduced	rate	of	4%	
(subject to a sunset clause of 30 June 2023).  Further , for the said bonds issued on or after 1 July 
2023 and listed only on a recognised stock exchange in an IFSC, the interest income payable to a 
non-resident	is	chargeable	at	the	rate	of	9%.
• Interest payable to a non-resident by a unit located in an IFSC in respect of monies borrowed by it 
on	or	after	the	first	day	of	September	2019	is	tax-exempt.	
• Dividend	income	received	by	a	non-resident	from	a	unit	in	an	IFSC	is	taxable	at	the	rate	of	10%.
Additional tax incentives available to 
IBUs
• An exemption is given to a non-resident on any income earned on the transfer of non-deliverable 
forward	contracts	or	offshore	derivative	instruments	or	over-the-counter	derivatives	entered	into	
with	an	offshore	banking	unit	of	an	IFSC,	fulfiling	the	prescribed	conditions.
• Any	income	distributed	to	a	non-resident	on	offshore	derivative	instruments	(ODIs)	entered	into	
with	an	offshore	banking	unit	of	an	IFSC	fulfilling	the	conditions	prescribed	is	exempt.
• Income	earned	by	the	investment	division	of	an	IBU	being	offshore	BU	of	a	non-resident	is	tax-
exempt from the transfer of bonds, global depository receipts (GDRs), rupee-denominated bonds 
of	an	Indian	company	or	derivative	and	other	specified	securities	subject	to	prescribed	conditions.	

[PAGE 44]
44  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
Particulars Description
Additional tax incentives available to 
funds and fund management entities 
set up in the IFSC GIFT City
• The following incomes earned by the Category III AIF, which are attributable to non-resident 
investors in the AIF, are exempt from tax:
• Income on the transfer of any securities (other than shares in a company resident in India), 
including	derivatives,	debt	securities	and	offshore	securities
• Income from securities issued by a non-resident (not being a permanent establishment of a non-
resident in India) and where such income otherwise does not accrue/arise in India
• Income	from	a	securitisation	trust	chargeable	under	the	head	‘profits	and	gains	of	business	or	
profession,’ to the extent such income is accrued or arisen to or is received, is attributable to units 
held	by	a	non-resident	or	is	attributable	to	the	investment	division	of	offshore	banking	unit,	as	the	
case may be
• Income	on	the	transfer	of	specified	securities	listed	on	a	recognised	stock	exchange	located	in	an	
IFSC	where	consideration	for	such	transaction	is	in	convertible	foreign	exchange.	The	specified	
securities covered are as under:
(a) Bond or global depository receipt
(b) Rupee-denominated bond of an Indian company
(c) Derivative
(d)	Such	other	securities	as	may	be	notified	by	the	central	government	on	this	behalf
Further ,	GOI	vide	notification	dated	5	March	2020	had	notified	various	other	securities	as	below:
(i) Foreign currency-denominated bond
(ii) Unit of a mutual fund
(iii) Unit of a business trust
(iv) Foreign currency-denominated equity share of a company
(v) Unit of alternative investment fund
• Surcharge and cess are not applicable while computing advance tax on the prescribed income 
earned by Category III AIF in an IFSC, subject to conditions prescribed.
• Certain	conditions	prescribed	for	opting	safe	harbour	regime	under	Section	9A	of	the	Act	for	offshore	
funds managed by an onshore fund manager located in an IFSC are relaxed, provided that the 
operations have commenced on or before 31 March 2024. 
Other tax incentives available in an 
IFSC
Exemption to the unit holder of specified fund 
Income	accruing	or	arising	to	a	unit	holder	from	a	specified	fund	or	on	the	transfer	of	units	in	the	
specified	fund	is	exempt	from	tax.
Exemption on the relocation of funds to an IFSC
To	encourage	migration	of	offshore	funds	to	an	IFSC,	currently,	a	tax	exemption	is	available	to	offshore	
funds	and	their	unit	holders	and	shareholders	on	the	transfer	of	capital	assets	of	the	offshore	fund	(or	of	
its wholly-owned special purpose vehicle) on account of relocation undertaken up to 31 March 2025.
Goods and Service Tax (GST)
• No GST on services
 – Received by a unit in IFSC
 – Provided to IFSC/SEZ units or overseas clients
• GST applicable on services provided to the Domestic Tariff Area (DTA)

[PAGE 45]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  4 5   
XVII.  Glossary of terms
AIF Alternative Investment Fund
AML Anti-money Laundering
AMT Alternate Minimum Tax
AUM Asset Under Management
BDR Bullion Depository Receipt
CMI Capital Market Intermediaries 
CRR Cash Reserve Ratio
DGFT Directorate General of Foreign Trade
DPIIT Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade
DTA Domestic	Tariff	Area
EC Expert Committee
ECB External Commercial Borrowing
ESG Environmental, Social and Governance
ETFs Exchange Traded Funds
FATF Financial Action Task Force
FC Finance Company
FE Fintech Entity
FEMA Foreign Exchange Management Act
FIS Fintech Innovation Sandbox
FME Fund Management Entity
FPI Foreign Portfolio Investor
FRS Fintech Regulatory Sandbox
FU Finance Unit
GAO Global	Administrative	Office
GDR Global Depository Receipt
GIC Global In-house Centre
GIFT City Gujarat International Finance Tec-city
GOI Government of India
GST Goods and Service Tax
IBC International Branch Campuses
IBE International Bullion Exchange
IBUs IFSC Banking Units
IFSC International Financial Service Centre
IFSCA International Financial Service Centre Authority
IIBX India International Bullion Exchange IFSC Limited
IIIO IFSC	Insurance	Intermediary	Office
IIO IFSC	Insurance	Office
India INX India International Exchange (IFSC) Limited
InvITs Infrastructure Investment Trust
IoRS Inter-operable Regulatory Sandbox
IoT Internet of Things
IRDAI Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India
KYC Know Your Customer
LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio
LR Leverage Ratio
LRS Liberalised Remittance Scheme
MAT Minimum Alternate Tax
MNC Multinational Corporation
MOU Memorandum of Understanding
NDF Non-deliverable Forward
NOF Net Owned Funds
NSE National Stock Exchange
NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio
OEC Offshore	Education	Centres
PFRDAI Pension Fund Regulatory Development Authority of India
PMS Portfolio Management Services
POC Proof of Concept
RBI Reserve Bank of India
RDRR Retail Deposit Reserve Ratio
REITs Real Estate Investment Trusts
RO Representative	Office
RSE Recognised Stock Exchange
SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEZ Special Economic Zone
SLR Statutory Liquidity Ratio
SMEs Small and Medium Enterprises
TPA Third-party Administrator
VC Venture Capital
WHT Withholding Tax
WOS Wholly-owned Subsidiary

[PAGE 46]
46  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
XVIII.  Contribution and 
acknowledgments 
Contributors
Financial Services - Tax and Regulatory Team
Paresh Kubadiya, Pratik Shah, Nikunj Bagadiya, Nayan Kothari
List of Sources
https://www.giftgujarat.in
https://ifsca.gov.in
https://rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_FemaNotifications.aspx?Id=12098
https://www.thecityuk.com/media/04od4n2k/iukfp-developing-gift-city-into-a-global-
services-hub.pdf
https://www.indiainx.com/static/about.aspx 
https://www1.nseindia.com/supra_global/content/nse_ifsc/about_nseifsc.htm
http://sezindia.nic.in/cms/operational-sezs-in-india.php
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGeneral_Layout.
aspx?page=PageNo107&flag=1
https://egazette.nic.in
https://pib.gov.in
https://www.iibx.co.in/static/about.aspx
https://www.ibef.org/industry/ports-india-shipping
G.S.R.	08(E)	dated	4	January	2017	for	unlisted	public	company	and	G.S.R.	09	(E)	
dated	4	January	2017	for	private	company
Report	of	the	Expert	Committee	on	Investment	Fund	–	31	January	2022
Extract from Report on ‘Project Rupee Raftar’ by the Ministry of Civil Aviation
https://www.ifsca.gov.in/Document/Slider/IFSCA_Aircraftleasing_Digital_18122021.
pdf
IFSCA	Report	of	the	Committee	of	Experts	on	Insurance,	October	2021
Study	report	by	IFSCA	on	making	the	IFSC	a	reinsurance	hub	–	December	2021
Committee report for Ship Acquisition, Financing and Leasing from IFSC – October 
2021
Editorial review Design
Sonali Lingwal
Akshay Kapoor
Gurpreet Singh
For media queries, please contact
E: media@in.gt.com

[PAGE 47]
The world inside IFSC - GIFT City  4 7   
Notes

[PAGE 48]
48  The world inside IFSC - GIFT City
© 2023 Grant Thornton Bharat LLP . All rights reserved.
“Grant Thornton Bharat” means Grant Thornton Advisory Private Limited, the sole member firm of Grant Thornton International Limited (UK) in India, and those legal 
entities which are its related parties as defined by the Companies Act, 2013, including Grant Thornton Bharat LLP .
Grant Thornton Bharat LLP , formerly Grant Thornton India LLP , is registered with limited liability with identity number AAA-7677 and has its registered office at L-41 
Connaught Circus, New Delhi, 110001. 
References to Grant Thornton are to Grant Thornton International Ltd. (Grant Thornton International) or its member firms. Grant Thornton International and the 
member firms are not a worldwide partnership. Services are delivered independently by the member firms.
We are 
Shaping a Vibrant Bharat
A member of Grant Thornton International Ltd, Grant Thornton 
Bharat is at the forefront of helping reshape the values in the 
profession. We are helping shape various industry ecosystems 
through our work across Assurance, Tax, Risk, Transactions, 
Technology and Consulting, and are going beyond to shape a 
more #VibrantBharat.
Connect 
with us on
@GrantThorntonBharat @GrantThorntonBharat @Grantthornton_bharat
@GrantThorntonIN @GrantThorntonBharatLLP Gbharat@in.gt.com
Scan QR code to see  
our office addresses
www.grantthornton.in 
Our offices in India
Kolkata Mumbai Noida Pune
Dehradun Delhi Gurgaon Hyderabad Kochi
Ahmedabad Bengaluru Chandigarh Chennai