SOURCE: 103_IFSCA TAS__Draft Regulations May 2025.pdf
PAGES: 20
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
[1] 
 
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRES AUTHORITY 
(DIVISION OF ANCILLARY SERVICES, BATF AND GIC) 
2nd and 3rd Floor, Pragya Tower, 
GIFT SEZ, GIFT City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 
 
eF.No. 1829/IFSCA/GIC/1/2024                   May 09, 2025 
 
REQUEST FOR FEEDBACK / COMMENTS/ SUGGESTIONS FOR 
PROPOSED IFSCA (TECHFIN AND ANCILLARY SERVICES) 
REGULATIONS, 2025 
  
1. Objective 
 
The International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) aims to establish 
a regulatory framework for TechFins and Ancillary Services Providers to aid, help, 
assist, strengthen, support, directly or indirectly the entities, which are attendant upon or 
connected with the delivery of financial services specified under clause (e) of subsection 
(1) of Section 3 of the IFSCA Act, 2019, as well as other financial services that may be 
notified by the Central Government from time to time.  
 
The presence of TechFins and Ancillary Services providers in the IFSC ecosystem 
will contribute to the transparency, accountability, and regulatory compliance of IFSCA 
regulated entities and thereby instilling confidence in investors and stakeholders. 
 
Further, these service providers will also bring specialized knowledge, global best 
practices and skill sets to facilitate efficient business operations and employment 
generation to make GIFT-IFSC as a Regional Financial Capability Hub in short-term 
and as a Global financial capability hub in long term.  
  
2. Background 
 
In accordance with Regulation 7 of the International Financial Services Centres 
Authority (Procedure for Making Regulations) Regulations, 2021, and based on the 
objectives, outcomes, experiences from its implementation, its relevance to changed 
environment and feedback received from market participants and stakeholders through 
various interactions and representations, it is proposed to introduce a unified regulatory 
framework. This comprehensive regulation will encompass Ancillary Services, TechFin 

[PAGE 2]
[2] 
 
services, and activities permitted to be outsourced by REs of the respective financial 
sector regulators. The objective is to promote ease of doing business by providing a 
common platform for entities providing ancillary services and information technology 
support services to institutions belonging to BFSI segment. The proposed single 
regulatory framework will enable service providers under a unified registration process, 
thereby further enhancing operational convenience within GIFT-IFSC. 
 
3. Overview of the Existing Framework 
 
A. IFSCA Circular on Framework for Enabling Ancillary services in GIFT IFSC 
dated 10.02.2021 as amended from time to time. 
 
Recognising the critical role of professional and other service providers in the 
development of financial products, services, and institutions within International 
Financial Services Centres (IFSCs), the International Financial Services Centres 
Authority (IFSCA) issued a framework on 10th February 2021 to enable ancillary 
services. This framework allows professionals such as Chartered Accountants, Company 
Secretaries, Lawyers, Trustees, fund accounting firms, and consultancy service providers 
to offer specialised services from GIFT-IFSC. The goal is to support the efficient 
operation of IFSC entities and other BFSI (Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance) 
organisations located outside India, with a mandate to bring back India centric financial 
services business to GIFT IFSC.  
 
B. Framework for FinTech Entity in the IFSC 
 
To facilitate the growth of fintech firms across Indian and foreign jurisdictions, 
IFSCA has come up with “Framework for FinTech Entity in the IFSCs” vide circular 
dated 27th April, 2022 aimed at fostering innovation in financial services through 
innovation facilitators like Regulatory/ Innovation Sandbox for FinTech activities 
spanning across Banking, Capital Market, insurance sector etc. and at the same time 
enables the pure play technology companies providing allied activities/services to BFSI 
sector be regulated in GIFT IFSC. Further, it covers (i) financial technology (FinTech) 
solutions resulting in new business models, applications, process or products in 
areas/activities linked to financial services regulated by IFSCA and (ii) 
advanced/innovative technological solutions which aid and assist activities in relation to 
financial products, financial services and financial institutions (TechFin). 
 

[PAGE 3]
[3] 
 
 
4.  Seeking comments / feedback/ suggestion on draft IFSCA (TechFin and 
Ancillary Services) Regulations, 2025  
 
With an intend to create an effective single regulatory architecture in GIFT-IFSC 
for Ancillary Services, TechFin component of IFSCA FinTech Entity framework, and 
outsourced activities permitted by financial sectoral regulators, a single consolidated 
regulation is prepared titled as ‘Draft IFSCA (TechFin and Ancillary Services) 
Regulations, 2025’. Copy of the said regulation is placed at Annexure-I. 
 
The General public, market participants and stakeholders are requested to forward 
their comments / suggestions through e-mail to ancillary@ifsca.gov.in with a copy to 
Shri Kalpesh Kumar Mehta, AGM, IFSCA at kalpesh.mehta@ifsca.gov.in  with subject 
line Comments on draft IFSCA (TechFin and Ancillary Services) Regulations, 2025 
latest by June 1st 2025. The comments may kindly be submitted in the following format 
(MS Word or MS Excel format only): 
  
Name and Details of the Person / Entity 
Organisation name (If applicable), 
Contact details- Phone and Email address 
S. 
No. 
  
Regulation 
No. 
  
Sub- 
Regulation 
  
Comments/ 
Suggestions/ 
Feedback 
Detailed 
Rationale 
Industry best practices 
comparable with the 
parallel Jurisdictions 
across the globe. 
      
      
      
 
***** 
 
 
  

[PAGE 4]
[4] 
 
Annexure-I 
Draft IFSCA (TechFin and Ancillary Services) Regulations, 2025 
 
F. No. IFSCA/GN/______. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) 
of Section 28, read with sub-section (1) of Section 12 of the International Financial 
Services Centres Authority Act, 2019, the International Financial Services Centres 
Authority hereby makes the following regulations, namely: - 
 
1. Short Title and Commencement 
1) These Regulations shall be called the International Financial Services Centres 
Authority (TechFin and Ancillary Services) Regulations, 2025. 
2) These regulations shall come into force from the date of their publication in the 
Official Gazette. 
 
2. Objectives 
1) These regulations are aimed to put in place a regulatory framework for TechFins 
and Ancillary Services Providers for making arrangements for carrying on any of the 
financial services specified under clause (e) of subsection (1) of Section 3 of the 
IFSCA Act, 2019.  
 
3. Definitions 
1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein 
shall bear the meanings as assigned to them herein below - 
(i). “Act” means the International Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 2019 
(50 of 2019); 
(ii). “Ancillary Services” shall mean those services which directly or indirectly 
aid, help, assist or strengthen or are attendant upon or connected with the 
services, as detailed under clause (e) of sub- section (1) of section 3 of the 

[PAGE 5]
[5] 
 
IFSCA Act, 2019.  List of such ancillary services are mentioned in the first 
schedule of these regulation;  
(iii). “Authority” means the International Financial Services Centres Authority 
established under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act; 
(iv). “Group entities” includes an arrangement involving two or more entities 
related to each other through any of the following relationships:  
(i) parent- subsidiary (as per Ind-AS 110/AS 21);  
(ii) joint venture (as per Ind-AS 28/AS 27); 
 (iii) associate (as per Ind-AS 28/AS 23);  
(iv) related party (as defined in terms of Ind-AS 24/ Accounting Standard 18);  
(v) common brand name;  
(vi) investment in equity shares/capital contribution of 20 per cent and above. 
(v). “Intermediaries” for the purpose of these regulations shall mean such an 
entity within its group entities, which receives the services from the Service 
Provider registered under these regulations, in order to deliver the services t to 
a Service Recipient for the purpose of delivery of financial services specified 
under clause ( e) of subsection (1) of Section (3) of IFSCA Act, 2019; 
Explanation. - The delivery of services by Intermediaries to Service Recipient 
shall have close connection with any of the financial services covered under 
clause (e) of sub- section (1) of section 3 of the Act; 
(vi). “International Financial Services Centre” or “IFSC” shall have the same 
meaning as assigned to it under clause (g) of sub-section (1) of Section 3 of 
the Act; 
(vii). “IFSCA Single Window IT Systems (SWIT)” refers to an online platform 
designed, inter-alia, to facilitate the processing of applications submitted by 
the applicants for obtaining Certificate of Registration under these regulations; 
(viii). “Non-resident” means a person resident outside India under the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and shall also include units in 
International Financial Service Centre; 

[PAGE 6]
[6] 
 
(ix). “Specified Foreign Currency” means the currencies specified in the First 
Schedule of the International Financial Services Centres Authority (Banking) 
Regulations, 2020 or any other regulation as may be specified by the Authority 
from time to time; 
(x). “TechFin and Ancillary Service  providers” shall mean the entities registered 
under these regulations intending to provide any one or more of services 
mentioned in First and Second Schedule of these regulations, either directly or 
indirectly, to aid, help, assist, strengthen for the purpose of making 
arrangements for delivery of financial services covered under clause (e) of sub- 
section (1) of section 3 of the Act; 
(xi).  “Service Recipient” means the end users which receive services from the 
Service Provider registered under these regulations for the purpose of making 
arrangements for delivery of financial services covered under clause (e) of sub- 
section (1) of section 3 of the Act;  
Explanation: The end usage of the TechFin and Ancillary Services must have 
close connection/ nexus with the financial services or bearing on the decision-
making process in the delivery of these financial services covered under 
Section 3 (1) (e) of the IFSCA Act, 2019.  
(xii). “Techfin” means such products and services, as mentioned in Second schedule 
of these regulations, which are advanced or emerging technology solution in 
allied areas/activities which aid and assist activities in relation to financial 
products, financial services and financial institutions. 
 
2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the 
Act or Acts mentioned in the First Schedule to the Act or Companies Act, 2013 (18 
of 2013) or Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (6 of 2009) or any rules or 
regulations made thereunder shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to 
them in those Acts, rules or regulations or any statutory modification or re-
enactment thereto, as the case may be. 

[PAGE 7]
[7] 
 
 
4. Registration 
An entity desirous of providing TechFin and Ancillary services shall not commence 
operations in an IFSC unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from the 
Authority, in accordance with these regulations. 
 
Provided that the existing Ancillary Service Provider authorized under Circular dated 
June 10, 2021, titled “Framework for enabling Ancillary services at International 
Financial Services Centres (hereinafter referred to as “Ancillary Service Provider”), 
or an existing TechFin authorized under Circular dated April 27, 2022, titled 
Framework for FinTech Entity in the International Financial Services Centres (IFSCs) 
(hereinafter referred to as “TechFin”), shall within a period of twelve (12) months 
from the effective date of applicability of these regulations, obtain a certificate of 
registration under these regulations, while adhering to the applicable provisions under 
these regulations.  
 
Provided further that, in case there is sufficient cause for the existing Ancillary 
Service Provider or the Tech Fin for not obtaining the certificate of registration within 
the specified time- limit, the Chairperson of the Authority, for reasons recorded in 
writing, may extend the time period beyond twelve (12) months, but not exceeding 
twenty-four (24) months.  
 
5. Application for Registration  
1) An applicant proposing to provide TechFin and Ancillary services under these 
regulations shall submit an application to the Authority, through IFSCA SWIT 
platform, along with documents and application fees, in the manner as specified by 
the Authority, for the grant of certificate of registration.  
2) An application which is not complete in all respects shall be liable to be rejected.  

[PAGE 8]
[8] 
 
3) The applicant proposing to provide TechFin and Ancillary services shall be required 
to be set up its office in IFSC, in the form of a company or a limited liability 
partnership or branch thereof or any other form as may be permitted by the Authority. 
4) In case of an applicant, who is a member(s) of the professional bodies / institute 
constituted under the Act of the Parliament of India, it is permitted to set up as a unit 
in IFSC in the form of Registered Partnership firm. 
5) The promoters of the applicant entity shall be from a jurisdiction which has not been 
identified in the public statement of Financial Action Task Force (FATF) as “High 
Risk jurisdiction-subject to call for action”.  
 
6. Procedure for Grant of Certificate of Registration 
1) After considering the application made under regulation 5, the Authority may grant 
an in-principle approval to the applicant, subject to such conditions, as the 
Authority deems necessary.  
Provided that if the Authority is not inclined to grant in-principle, it shall 
communicate the same to the applicant advising it to rectify those within thirty (30) 
days from the date of communication, failing which the application is liable to be 
rejected. 
2) The Applicant shall, within a period of 180 days take necessary steps to comply 
with these regulations and terms and conditions of the in-principle approval, for 
grant of final certificate of registration. 
3) Upon consideration of the application, the Authority may grant a certificate of 
registration to the applicant, subject to such conditions, as it deems necessary.  
4) After considering the application, if the Authority is of the opinion that the 
certificate of registration cannot be granted due to certain deficiencies, it shall 
communicate the same to the applicant advising it to rectify those within thirty (30) 
days from the date of communication, failing which the application is liable to be 
rejected.  

[PAGE 9]
[9] 
 
Provided that no application shall be rejected without giving the applicant a 
reasonable opportunity to make written submissions. 
5) The certificate of registration granted to an entity under this regulation shall be 
valid unless suspended or cancelled by the Authority or surrendered by the service 
provider, in accordance with these regulations.  
Provided that the surrender of certificate of registration by the entity shall be 
effective only after approval of the Authority.  
6) The registered entity shall keep the Authority informed of any material change in 
the information or particulars previously furnished.  
 
7. Fit and Proper Requirements  
1) The TechFin and Ancillary Services Provider shall ensure that its principal 
officer, compliance officer, directors/ partners/ designated partners, and 
controlling shareholders are fit and proper persons, at all times. 
2) For the purpose of sub-regulation (1), a person shall be deemed to be a fit and 
proper person if:- 
a) such a person has a record of fairness and integrity, including but not limited to- 
(i) financial integrity; 
(ii) good reputation and character; and 
(iii) honesty. 
b) such a person has not incurred any of the following disqualifications: 
(i) the person has been convicted by a court for any offence involving moral 
turpitude or any economic offence, in last five years. 
(ii) charge sheet has been filed against such person by any Indian enforcement 
agency in matters concerning economic offences and is pending;  
(iii) charges have been framed by a court of law or an equivalent institution in 
matters concerning economic offences;  
(iv)  a recovery proceeding has been initiated against the person by a statutory 
body or financial regulatory authority and is pending, in last five years. 

[PAGE 10]
[10] 
 
(v) an order has been passed against the person for malfeasance during the last 
five years. 
(vi)  the person has been declared an undischarged insolvent. 
(vii) an order, restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person from accessing, 
providing or dealing in financial products or financial services, has been 
passed by any regulatory authority, for the period specified in the said order.  
(viii) any other order against the person, has been passed by the Authority or any 
other regulatory authority, and for such period till the order is in force.  
 
8. Appointment of Principal Officer and Compliance Officer  
1) The TechFin and Ancillary Services (TAS) Provider shall designate a Principal 
Officer who shall be responsible for its overall activities in IFSC.  
2) In addition to the above, the TAS Provider shall also designate a Compliance Officer 
who shall be responsible for reporting to the Board of Directors or Chief Compliance 
Officer of the organization, as the case may be, besides the compliance of policies, 
procedures, maintenance of records and the implementation of the requirements as 
specified under these regulations and other applicable laws in force. 
3) The TAS Provider shall ensure that its Principal Officer and Compliance Officer are 
based out of IFSC and meet the following requirements: - 
a. A professionally qualified Chartered Accountant (CA) or  Company 
Secretary (CS) or Cost and Management Accountant (CMA) or Certified 
Public Accountant (CPA) or Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) or any 
other equivalent qualifications from professional bodies or institutes or a 
post-graduate degree in finance, accountancy, business management, 
commerce, economics, IT, taxation or a degree in law from a university or 
an institution recognized by the UGC or AICTE or such other equivalent 
authority in India or a foreign jurisdiction.  

[PAGE 11]
[11] 
 
b. No person shall be eligible to be appointed as Principal Officer or 
Compliance Officer, unless he has experience in the relevant fields for at 
least (3) years. 
Provided that if the principal officer or compliance officer, specified under 
sub-regulation (1), has a work experience of at least 15 (fifteen) years in the 
relevant area in Banking, Financial Institutions, Insurance, and Securities 
market or related activities, the minimum educational qualification required 
for such person shall be a graduate degree in any field. 
9. Eligibility Criteria for Service Recipients 
1) The Service Recipients under these regulations, shall be as follows: 
(i). Any entities in GIFT-IFSC; 
(ii). Any BFSI Entities located outside India for the purpose of making 
arrangements for delivery of financial services covered under clause (e) of 
sub- section (1) of section 3 of the Act. 
(iii).  Indian entities only for the purpose of setting up of their office in IFSC in 
India  
2) The Service Recipient shall be non-residents. 
3) The Service Recipient shall not be located in a jurisdiction which has been identified 
in the public statement of Financial Action Task Force and High-Risk Jurisdiction – 
subject to call for action. 
10. Currency of Operations 
1) The TechFin and Ancillary Services (TAS) shall carry out its operation in any 
Specified Foreign Currency.   
Provided that the TAS Provider shall be permitted to have an INR account to defray 
its administrative and statutory expenses and for such other purposes as may be 
permitted under the applicable laws. 
2)  The TAS Provider shall maintain its balance sheet in any Specified Foreign Currency. 

[PAGE 12]
[12] 
 
11. Reporting Requirements 
1) The TAS Provider shall furnish information relating to its operations to the 
Authority, in such manner, interval and form, as may be specified by the Authority. 
2) Any financial reporting by the TAS Provider to the Authority shall be in US 
Dollar, unless otherwise specified by the Authority. 
12. Power to Relax strict enforcement of the regulations 
1) The Authority, for reasons to be recorded in writing, may in the interest of the 
development and regulation of the financial services market in IFSC, relax the 
strict enforcement of any requirements of these regulations.  
2) For seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (1), an application giving details and 
the grounds on which such relaxation has been sought, shall be filed with the 
Authority along with a non-refundable fee as may be specified by the Authority.  
3) The Authority shall process such application within sixty (60) days of the date of 
receipt of the application, complete in all respects, including responses to 
clarifications sought and shall record reasons for acceptance or refusal of the 
relaxations sought by the applicant. 
13. Power to remove difficulties  
In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions 
of these regulations, the Chairperson of the Authority may issue directions through 
guidance notes or circulars. 
14. Power to Specify Norms, Procedures, Issue Clarifications  
For the purposes of implementation of these regulations and matters incidental thereto, 
the Chairperson of the Authority may specify norms, procedures, processes, additional 
requirements, etc. by way of circulars or guidelines or directions. 
15. Payment of Fees 
The TAS Provider shall pay such fees as may be specified by the Authority from time to 

[PAGE 13]
[13] 
 
time. 
 
16. Action in Case of Default 
1) The TAS Provider which contravenes any of the provisions of these regulations, 
guidelines, circulars or directions made thereunder, shall be liable for enforcement action 
under the Act, including but not limited to suspension or cancellation of registration.  
2) No enforcement action as referred under sub-regulation (1) shall be taken without 
giving a reasonable opportunity to the TAS Provider to make its submissions. 
17. Power to Inspect  
The Chairperson of the Authority shall stipulate the procedure of inspection, 
investigation or prosecution of offences, settlement of civil and administrative 
proceedings, compounding or adjudication of any offence or penalty, or actions to be 
taken in furtherance of such inspection, investigation, or adjudication or filing of appeals 
arising therefrom. 
18. Power to call for information  
The Authority may call for any information, documents or records from the TechFin and 
Ancillary Services Provider. 
19. Repeal and Saving: 
(1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, the Circular dated February 10, 
2021, titled “Framework for enabling Ancillary services at International Financial 
Services Centres” shall stand ineffective.  
(2) The reference to TechFin in Chapter I, Clause 7 (b) and Annexure-I, of the Circular 
dated April 27, 2022, titled the “Framework for FinTech Entity in the International 
Financial Services Centres (IFSCs)” shall stand ineffective. 
(3) On and from the commencement of these regulations, the following Circulars issued 
by the Authority shall stand superseded: 

[PAGE 14]
[14] 
 
a) Circular dated June 10, 2021, titled “Framework for enabling Ancillary 
services at International Financial Services Centres”; 
b) Circular dated April 17, 2023, titled “Amendment to the Circular titled 
“Framework for enabling Ancillary services at International Financial Services 
Centres””; and  
c) Circular dated April 17, 2025, titled “Amendment to the circular titled 
‘Framework for enabling Ancillary Services at International Financial Services 
Centres’’’. 
(4)  Notwithstanding such repeal and supersession, the Ancillary Service Providers or 
TechFin already authorized under their respective Frameworks, shall continue to be 
governed by provisions of respective Frameworks till the date of receipt of Certificate 
of Registration under these regulations or up to 12 months, unless extended, from the 
commencement of this regulation, whichever is earlier. 
 
 
 
  

[PAGE 15]
[15] 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
 
List of Ancillary Services covered under these regulations: 
(i). Actuarial Services 
(ii). Advisory Services  
(iii). Assets Management Support Services relating to financial product as notified 
in IFSC 
(iv). Auditing Services 
(v). Business Process outsourcing  
(vi). Compliance Management support services covering assessment of Internal 
Control system, Integrated Reporting, Financial reporting, Non-financial 
Reporting, Corporate Sustainability Reporting, Board Reporting, Annual 
Report, Other regulatory Reporting. 
(vii). Customer care Support Services,  
(viii). Enterprise Governance related support services namely, assessment of the 
Corporate Governance principles, Assessment of Board Effectiveness, Board 
Processes, Board Committees, Preparation and review of Corporate Policies & 
Disclosures, Performance Evaluation of Board and Management, review of 
Related Party Transactions, Execution of Shareholders’ Rights.  
(ix). Fund Administration Services including Fund Accounting  
(x). Human Resource & Payroll processing  
(xi). Insolvency Professional Services and Liquidation related support Services  
(xii). Knowledge Process Outsourcing  
(xiii). Legal Process Outsourcing  
(xiv). Legal Services  
(xv). Management Consulting Services 
(xvi). Marketing support Services  
 

[PAGE 16]
[16] 
 
(xvii). Risk Management related services, namely providing support services to Risk 
Identification, Risk Analysis, Risk Measurement, Risk Mitigation, Risk 
Elimination, Risk Management Committee, support to Internal Audit, Risk 
Audit, Risk Related Disclosures.  
(xviii). Secretarial Services 
(xix). Ship Broking for Ship leasing Activities  
(xx). Supply Chain management support 
(xxi). Trusteeship Services  
(xxii). Valuation Services 
(xxiii). V oice Broking for Banking Services  
(xxiv). Outsourced Services, which are not covered above but are permitted to be 
outsourced by Regulated Entity of the respective financial sector regulator of 
its home jurisdiction 
(xxv). Any other services as may be permitted by the Authority from time to time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

[PAGE 17]
[17] 
 
 
SECOND SCHEDULE 
 List of Techfin services covered under these regulations: 
(i). Accelerators  
(ii). Agri Tech  
(iii). Big Data & Analytics 
(iv). Climate/ Green/ Sustainable Tech  
(v). Cloud Computing Services,  
(vi). Cyber Security, Cyber Security Architecture and Cyber Risk Management 
Services Application Development and Maintenance, Automation and RPA  
(vii). ERP Systems 
(viii). Implementation of eGRC software platforms 
(ix). IT Infrastructure & Cloud Insurance 
(x). Management of IT infrastructure and technology services associated with 
payment system ecosystem  
(xi). Regulatory Tech  
(xii). Services and operations related to Data Centres 
(xiii). Solutions or services for Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) 
domain includes Solutions/services for BFSI domain leveraging Artificial 
Intelligence/Machine Learning, Biometrics, Chatbots, Digital Identity 
/KYC/AML/CFT, Fraud detection/prevention, Distributed Ledger 
Technology, Fraud detection/prevention, Internet of Things (IoT), 
Longevity Finance, Metaverse including Augmented Reality and /or Virtual 
Reality, Quantum Tech, Web 3.0, and the  
(xiv). Space Tech 
(xv). Supervisory Technology 
(xvi). Technology solution aiding Trade Finance  
(xvii). Technology solution supporting Digital banking  

[PAGE 18]
[18] 
 
(xviii). Technology Solutions dealing with Financial Product, Financial Services as 
notified under Act and includes IT related Development, Enhancement, 
maintenance and support services.  
(xix). Outsourced Services, which are not covered above, but are permitted to be 
outsourced by Regulated Entity of the respective financial sector regulator 
of its home jurisdiction. 
(xx). Any other services as may be permitted by the Authority from time to time. 
 
  

[PAGE 19]
[19] 
 
 
THIRD SCHEDULE 
 
Code of Conduct for the Techfin and Ancillary Service Provider: 
(i). The Entity shall ensure compliance with the Rules / Guidelines / Directives / 
Instructions/ Circulars, etc. as may be issued from time to time by IFSCA 
/Government of India and other regulators / authorities relating to the activities 
carried on by you. 
(ii). The Entity shall inform IFSCA, of any material change in the information or 
particulars previously furnished, which have a bearing on the certificate of 
Registration granted by IFSCA. 
(iii). The Entity shall not make use of your status as a Registered entity in 
furtherance of unrelated activities or any other purpose which is not permitted 
under the prescribed regulatory framework. 
(iv). The Entity shall deploy manpower resources and adequate infrastructure in 
IFSC commensurate with the business operations. 
(v). The Entity shall seek IFSCA registration/ authorisation separately under the 
appropriate framework/ regulations for undertaking regulated activities under 
various regulations issued by IFSCA. 
(vi). The Entity shall not take client assets (including money), directly or indirectly 
into its custody. It shall also not enter into any kind of financial transaction on 
behalf of its client. 
(vii). The Entity shall intimate the commencement of the business operations to the 
authority. 
(viii). The Entity shall maintain the validity of its Letter of Approval issued by the 
Administrator (IFSCA).  
(ix). The entity shall comply with all other terms and conditions may be specified 
by the Authority from time to time. 
 

[PAGE 20]
[20] 
 
 
FOURTH SCHEDULE 
 
List of services not permitted to be provided by TAS provider under these 
regulations: 
(i) Core activities which are not permitted to be outsourced by Regulated Entities 
of the respective financial sector regulators of Home Jurisdictions. 
(ii) Activities which are regulated by any other IFSCA’s Regulations/ Framework 
and circular. 
(iii) Facility Management Services, including Building maintenance, Security 
services, housekeeping services, Civil, Electrical, Horticulture and MEP 
maintenance services and related manpower outsourced services.  
(iv) Transport and logistic services, Construction related services, and management 
of physical assets. 
(v) Any other services, in the opinion of Authority, which do not support delivery 
of financial services covered under clause (e) of subsection (1) of section (3) 
of IFSCA Act, 2019. 
*****