SOURCE: 115_PwC__FinTech in GIFT IFSC - v2.pdf
PAGES: 16
================================================================================


[PAGE 1]
1 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
FinTech in GIFT IFSC 

[PAGE 2]
2 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
 
ForewordForeword 
Gayathri Parthasarathy 
India Financial Services Sector 
Leader and Global Financial Services 
Technology Leader 
PwC India 
India’s economy has grown to USD 3.73 trillion.1 The fi st trillion was achieved 
60 years after independence, and a consistent growth rate has been maintained 
thereafter. In today’s interconnected and dynamic global economy, the role of the 
financial se vices sector has become increasingly vital. 
As a pioneering initiative in India’s financial andscape, the Government of India 
launched the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) project in 2007 , 
with an endeavour to develop a smart city that would host an International 
Financial Services Centre (IFSC) to provide a comprehensive platform for various 
financial ac ivities, such as banking, insurance, capital markets, asset and wealth 
management, FinTech, and access to global markets and currencies. 
Representing the nation’s vision to become a global hub for international finance
and commerce, GIFT IFSC offers world-class infrastructure and a regulatory 
framework to attract leading financial in titutions, businesses and investors from 
around the globe. 
This report aims to provide readers with a comprehensive understanding of 
the unique attributes and business opportunities inherent in this dynamic 
environment. We invite readers to envision the potential that GIFT City holds, as 
well as the opportunities it presents for the future. 
I extend my sincere gratitude to all the contributors, whose expertise and insights 
have enriched this publication. 
I also commend the editorial team for their dedication and diligence in bringing 
this project to fruition. 
May this publication foster continued collaboration, innovation, growth and 
prosperity of GIFT City and GIFT IFSC. 
1.	 https://www.zeebiz.com/economy-infra/news-india-to-become-3rd-largest-economy-with-gdp-of-usd-5-trillion-in-3-years-finmin-273873#:~:-
text=Today%2C%20it%20is%20the%205th,2024%20review%20of%20the%20economy. 

[PAGE 3]
3 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
Government of India 
operationalised GIFT City as 
an IFSC in 2015 
A greenfield sma t city 
developed on 886 acres 
of land 
1 
2 
3 
Divided into two zones that 
include a Domestic Tariff Area 
(DTA) and Special Economic Along National Highway 48 
01Zone (SEZ) (Delhi-Mumbai Industrial 
Corridor) 
02 25 mins from Ahmedabad 
International Airport 
The financial ateway of 
15 mins from nearest 
India for inbound and 03 railway station and 
outbound investment upcoming high-speed rail 
	
GIFT City – an introduction 
GIFT City, the Government of India’s flagship project, aims to boost India’s stature on the world map of international finance y 
fostering a favourable regulatory environment, promoting talent and facilitating capital fl w in the Indian economy. 
Recognising India’s financial p owess, Finance Minister Mr. Arun Jaitley announced the establishment of GIFT City as India’s 
inaugural International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) during the Union Budget for 2015-16. 
GIFT City, often labelled the ‘smart city of the future’, is located in Gujarat, nestled between Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. 
This tri-city ecosystem fosters an environment supporting business, industry, international finance, and oreign investment, 
symbolising both a nostalgic era and a promising future. 
Conceived as a vertical city, GIFT City boasts modern infrastructure such as a fully automated district cooling system (DCS), 
automated waste collection system (AWCS) and underground utility tunnels. 
This top-tier infrastructure has played a vital role in establishing GIFT City as a global leader among smart cities.
2 The urban 
centre is complemented by contemporary social amenities, such as an international school, healthcare facilities, a fi e-star hotel, 
an international exhibition complex, the GIFT City Business Club with both indoor and outdoor sports facilities, diverse dining 
options, and well-planned residential projects. Collectively, these offerings make GIFT City a truly ‘walk-to-work’ city. 
2.	 https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/national/gifts-ifsc-amongst-the-fastest-growing-globally/article24935538.ece 

[PAGE 4]
FinTech in GIFT IFSC
 
 
 
 
GIFT City journey so far… 
2007 
GIFT City project announced 
by Gujarat Government 
2011 
2014 
2015 
2016 
2020 
2024 
2018 
2021-2022 
2023 
The foundation stone for the GIFT project 
was laid. Brick and mortar development of 
GIFT City commenced 
GIFT City 
notified as SEZ
for international 
financial se vices 
Ministry of Finance 
notifies In ia’s fi st IFSC 
Union Budget 
provided a 
competitive 
tax regime for 
units in IFSC • Operationalisation of
Key announcements: 
• Area expansion from
886 acres to over 3,300
acres
• Development of social
infrastructure including
entertainment,
recreational and
retail zone
metro network in GIFT
City by July 2024
• 9-km riverfront
along the banks of
the Sabarmati River
near Gift City to be
IFSC Authority (IFSCA) 
was established 
RBI notifies
developedIFSC as non-
resident zone 
IFSCA notified ey 
regulations, circulars, 
notifica ions 
SGX Nifty 
begins trading 
as GIFT Nifty 
from GIFT 
City 
PwC 4 

[PAGE 5]
5 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
 
 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
Agentic automation in insurance 
IFSC 
The Government of India launched India’s fi st IFSC in 2015 to accomplish the vision of becoming a significant economic p wer 
by fostering the robust growth of international financial se vices within the nation. 
The IFSC is envisioned as a world-class zone dedicated to offering financial se vices to non-residents and certain residents in a 
foreign currency (other than the Indian rupee [INR]). 
Resident 
of India for 
tax 
Non-resident 
for FEMA 
IFSC 
Governing regulator - IFSCA 
Established in 2020, the IFSCA plays a role as a statutory body, providing a forward-looking regulatory environment for 
financial ma ket participants and facilitating ease of doing business. It functions as a unified egulator, combining the powers 
of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (IRDAI), and Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) related to financial se vices, 
products and institutions within the IFSC. 
In addition to securing approvals from the IFSCA for establishing a unit in IFSC, it is also necessary to obtain approvals from 
the Development Commissioner, SEZ. With effect from 28 February 2024, certain powers and functions of the Development 
Commissioner, SEZ are now vested with IFSCA.
3 
3. Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) Notification S.O. 940(E) dated 28th February 2024 

[PAGE 6]
FinTech in GIFT IFSC
	 	
 
	 	
	 	
 
	 	
	 	
	 	
580+ 
registered entities as on 31 
December 2023 
USD 148 billion 
outstanding derivative 
transactions booked by 
banks till December 2023 
USD 52.97 billion 
cumulative debt listing 
on IFSC exchanges as 
on 31 December 2023 
95 
alternative investment 
funds registered as on 
31 December 2023 
7 
ship leasing entities 
registered as on 
December 2023 
23 
banks registered as on 31 
December 2023 
2 
stock exchanges as on 
31 December 2023 
USD 10.43 billion 
green/ESG/sustainable  
debt listing as on 
31 December 2023 
USD 7.08 billion 
total commitments raised 
as on 31 December 2023 
29 
IFSC insurance offices and
intermediary office  as on 
31 December 2023 
USD 51.98 billion 
total banking asset size as 
on 31 December 2023 
USD 66.73 billion 
turnover on IFSC 
international stock 
exchanges in December 2023 
72 
broker dealers  
registered as on 
31 December 2023 
128 
aviation assets leased from the 
IFSC till December 2023 
47 
FinTech entities registered 
as on 31 December 2023 
	 	 	
PwC 6 
GIFT IFSC: In numbers4 
4.	 IFSCA Bulletin Oct-Dec 2023 

[PAGE 7]
7 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
 
   
 
Key benefi s: GIFT IFSC 
Strategic Single window Unifie  
location clearance regulator 
World-class Availability of Progressive 
infrastructure  talent pool   regulations 
Competitive  State subsidies International 
tax regime arbitration centre 
Agentic automation in insurance 


[PAGE 8]
8
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
  
Emerging business segments 
Global in-house Payment service Foreign Global and 
centres providers universities regional treasury 
centres 
Existing business opportunities 
01 
Banking
05 
Capital markets
02 
Aircraft leasing
06 
Asset and wealth management
03 
Ship leasing
07 
Bullion
04 
Insurance
08 FinTech
Proposed business 
segments in GIFT IFSC 
01 
Remote broker 
dealers in IFSC
02 
Book-keeping, accounting, taxation 
and financial c ime compliance 
services from the IFSC 

[PAGE 9]
9 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
	 	
  
Trends in the Indian FinTech ecosystem7
3rd 17 USD 237 billion
largest FinTech FinTech unicorns India’s wealth tech market 
economy globally as of 2023 opportunity by 2030 
87% 3,000 
India’s FinTech adoption rate compared to FinTech startups registered by the Department for 
the global average rate of 64% Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) in India 
 
 
 
	 	
	
Background 
FinTech industry in India 
i. India has emerged as one of the powerhouses for FinTech economies globally, with innovations such as digital
lending, mobile banking, secure payment gateways, mobile wallets and other concepts that are already shaping a new
and digitised India.
ii. Positioned as the third largest FinTech economy, 5 India is among the fastest-growing FinTech economies in the world.
iii. While the estimated global market opportunity for FinTechs is approximately USD 2.1 trillion by 2030, India alone
will house a total addressable market size of USD 1.3 trillion by 2025.6 
5. https://www.investindia.gov.in/sector/bfsi-fintech-financial-services 
6. https://www.investindia.gov.in/sector/bfsi-fintech-financial-services 
7. https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/TrendsPSIUserView.aspx?Id=25
https://indbiz.gov.in/india-ranks-third-with-maximum-fintech-unicorns-in-2023/
https://www.investindia.gov.in/sector/bfsi-fintech-financial-services

[PAGE 10]
10 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	
F Fin inT Tec echs and IFSCs hs and IFSCs Understanding the 
The IFSCA has been established in India to develop and 
regulate the financial ecosy tem and promote innovation FE Framework10
in the financial se vices market in IFSCs. In line with its 
objective, the IFSCA has issued the FinTech Entity (FE) 
Overview 
Regulatory Framework (FE Framework) vide circular no. The FE Framework is broadly divided into the following two 
F.No. 521/IFSCA/FinTech/FE Framework/2022-23 dated 27 parts: 
April 2022 for FinTechs and TechFins to promote and regulate • authorisation
FinTech activities in IFSC. • limited use authorisation (sandbox).
The FE Framework applies to all eligible domestic and foreign 
entities recognised as FinTechs and TechFins. FinTechs 
are categorised as entities providing financial echnology 
Eligibility 
solutions that result in new business models, applications, 
For Indian applicants – processes or products in financial se vices regulated by the 
• an entity registered with the DPIIT as a startup related toIFSCA, whereas TechFins are entities providing advanced or 
FinTech; oremerging technology solutions in allied areas or activities that 
• a company or limited liability partnership (LLP)aid and assist activities related to financial p oducts, financial
incorporated in India; orser titutions.8 vices and financial in
• branch of an Indian company or LLP in the IFSC; or
• an entity working directly or indirectly in an ecosystem
regulated by a domestic financial sec or regulator (RBI or
SEBI or IRDAI or PFRDA)
In the 21st century, finance and echnology are For foreign applicants – 
intertwined with each other. And when it comes • an entity from a Financial Action Task Force (‘FATF’)
to technology, science and software, India also compliant jurisdiction
has an edge and experience. Today, 40 percent 
share in the whole world in real time digital 
payments belongs to India alone. Today we are 
Authorisation 
the leaders in this. This power of India in the Any eligible technology company 
field of inTech is attracting the whole world. • that uses technology in its core product or service, business
Therefore, I expect all of you to aim for new model, distribution model, or methodology; or
innovations in FinTech. GIFT IFSC emerges as • has a deployable solution or working product; and
FinTech’s global laboratory.” • has a revenue-earning track record for at least one of the
last three financial ears.Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India9 
8	 Framework for FinT ech Entity in the International Financial Services Centres (IFSCs)- F .No. 521/IFSCA/FinT ech/FE Framework/2022-23
9	 https://pib.gov.in/PressReleaseIframePage.aspx?PRID=1846330
10	 Framework for FinT ech Entity in the International Financial Services Centres (IFSCs)- F .No. 521/IFSCA/FinT ech/FE Framework/2022-23

[PAGE 11]
11 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSCAgentic automation in insurance 
Limited use authorisation (sandbox) •  IFSCA FinTech innovation sandbox: Under this 
sandbox, applicants develop and test their FinTech ideas 
Limited use authorisation (sandbox) is a testing environment or solutions in isolation from the live market with limited 
under which entities operating in the banking, financial authorisation. 
services and insurance (BFSI) segment experiment with 
•  Inter-operable regulatory sandbox (IoRS): Foreign innovative FinTech or TechFin solutions for a limited period, 
FinTechs seeking entry into India will be considered for the either in the live market (regulatory sandbox) or in isolation 
IoRS with the IFSCA as the principal regulator. from the live market (innovation sandbox) while fulfi ling the 
requisite conditions. •  Overseas regulatory referral mechanism or FinTech 
bridge offered by the IFSCA: An applicant wishing to The FE Framework permits an eligible entity to undertake the 
utilise the overseas regulatory referral mechanism may development and testing of any of the following FinTech ideas 
apply under this sandbox, which operates as bridge or solutions in the IFSC: 
governed by a memorandum of understanding (MoU), 
•  IFSCA FinTech regulatory sandbox: Under this sandbox, collaboration or special arrangement between the IFSCA 
applicants test their FinTech ideas or solutions in a live and the overseas financial sec or regulator(s). 
environment with real customers or investors with limited 
use authorisation. 

[PAGE 12]
12 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Illustrative list of allied areas or activities that aid and assist endeavours related to financial p oducts, financial se vices and 
financial in titutions (TechFin) 
(a) Agri tech (b) Accelerators (c) Climate/green/ 
sustainable tech 
(d) Defence tech (e) Regulatory tech 
(f) Space tech (g) Supervisory tech (i) Technology solutions 
aiding trade financ  
(h) Technology solutions supporting 
digital banking 
i. Artificial in elligence/machine learning 
ii. Big data 
iii. Biometrics 
iv. Chatbots 
v. Cybersecurity 
vi. Digital identity/know your client (KYC)/ 
anti-money laundering (AML)/combating 
the financing of errorism (CFT) 
(j) Solutions or services for the BFSI domain leveraging: vii. Distributed ledger technology 
viii. Fraud detection/prevention 
ix. Internet of things 
x. Longevity financ  
xi. Metaverse including augmented reality and virtual 
reality 
xii. Quantum tech 
xiii. Web 3.0 
 
 
 
Permissible activities under this 
framework 
Eligible entities can undertake any one of the following activities: 
• Provide FinTech solutions that result in new business models, applications, processes or products in financial se vices. 
• Provide TechFin services or solutions in the form of advanced or emerging technology solutions in allied areas or activities 
that aid and assist activities related to financial p oducts, financial se vices and financial in titutions. 
Illustrative list of permissible areas or activities under FinTech: 
Banking sector Capital market and fund management Insurance sector 
Remittance and payments Crowdfunding Insur tech 
Digital lending Personal financ  Innovative technologies for insurance 
lifecycle 
Buy now pay later Wealth tech Digital innovation for global health 
insurance cover 
Crowd lending Robo advisory Innovation in commercial Insurance 
Digital bank 
(neobanking/challenger bank) 
Sustainable finance p oducts Digital platform for settlement of 
balances between insurance companies 
Open banking Alternative trading Platforms Open insurance 
Bank - Embedded insurance and cyber 
insurance 

[PAGE 13]
13 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
	
	 	
	FinTech Sandbox Listing support 
start‐up grant grant grant 
Grant forProof of Green FinTech 
acceleratorsconcept grant grant 
or cohorts 
An Evaluation Committee has been constituted for assessing applications and recommending applications that are eligible 
under the IFSCA FinTech Incentive Scheme, 2022. 
Currency for conduct of business 
All the entities shall undertake transactions in freely convertible foreign currency only. However, such entities may discharge 
their administrative expenses in INR by maintaining a Special Non-Resident Rupee (SNRR) account. 
Maintenance of books of accounts 
All the entities shall maintain their records, documents and books of accounts in freely convertible foreign currency (other 
than INR), as declared at the time of making the application under the FE framework. 
Submissions of report/information 
•  All the entities shall furnish a duly certified co y of their audited annual financial tatements within 30 days of fina isation 
along with details of regulatory action (undertaken on the entity), if any, within 15 days from the date of receipt of notice 
for initiation of such regulatory action. 
•  All the entities shall submit the financial in ormation to the IFSCA in USD, unless otherwise specified y the IFSCA. 
Incentives for FinTechs 
IFSCA FinTech Incentive Scheme 
To develop a world-class FinTech hub, the IFSCA FinTech Incentive Scheme, 2022, was notified on 4 ebruary 2022. The scheme 
provides financial suppo t in the form of a specific rant(s) to various Fintech and TechFin entities. The following six types of 
grants are included under this scheme: 

[PAGE 14]
14 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
Tax framework 
Direct taxes Angel tax 
•  100% tax exemption for 10 consecutive years •  Imposed on companies in which the public is not substantially 
out of 15 years interested 
•  Minimum alternate tax (MAT) does not •  Tax at the applicable rate on the amount of consideration 
apply to companies in the IFSC opting for received (resident or non-resident) over the fair market value of 
the new tax regime, otherwise 9%* (15%* in shares 
case of a foreign entity branch) •  An exemption is granted to venture capital receiving 
•  In the case of a subsidiary, section 80M of consideration from funds established in the IFSC (from the 
the Income-tax Act, 1961, is available on purview of the specified fund  
dividends paid to an Indian holding company •  An exemption is available to startups registered with the DPIIT 
•  Dividend taxable: from the angel tax provisions, if the aggregate of paid-up share 
–  foreign entity – 10%*     capital and share premium of the startup after the issue or 
proposed issue of shares does not exceed INR 250 million –  Indian entity – 22% or 30%* 
•  Withholding tax on dividend @10%* 
•  Transfer pricing provisions may be applicable 
Indirect taxes 
•   No goods and services tax on services: 
–  Received by a unit in the IFSC 
–  Provided by IFSC units or SEZ units to offshore clients 

[PAGE 15]
15 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
	 	
 
	 	
	
 
Use cases and opportunities in the IFSC 
Fractionalisation 
of bonds 
Green 
finance 
Supply chain 
finance 
solutions 
Tokenisation 
of physical 
assets 
Digital asset 
exchange 
Insur tech 
and wealth tech 
Non fungible 
tokens (NFT s) 
Longevity 
finance 
Payment 
services 
Payment services from the IFSC 
•  The IFSCA has issued IFSCA (Payment Services) Regulations, 2024, on 1 February 2024. These regulations lay down 
the process of regulating payment services and payment service providers in IFSCs, including the application process for 
obtaining a Certifica e of Authorisation from the IFSCA. 
•  The permitted payment services are: 
–  account issuance service (including e-money account issuance service) 
–  e-money issuance service 
–  escrow service 
–  cross-border money transfer service 
–  merchant acquisition service. 
Why FinTech in the IFSC? 
•  Unified egulator – the IFSCA (regulator for various financial se vices sectors) 
•  Liberal policies – deemed foreign jurisdiction from the exchange control perspective 
•  Ease in offering multiple permitted payment services under single authorisation 
•  India, as a leader in the digital payment revolution, enhances opportunities for the payment ecosystem through the IFSC 
•  Tax benefi s 
•  State incentives – Gujarat Information Technology/Information Technology enabled Services (IT/ITeS) Policy 
•  Low manpower and other administrative costs 
•  Skilled talent pool 
•  State-of-the-art infrastructure in GIFT IFSC 

[PAGE 16]
16 
PwCFinTech in GIFT IFSC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About PwC 
We help you build trust so you can boldly reinvent 
At PwC, we help clients build trust and reinvent so they can turn complexity into competitive 
advantage. We’re a tech-forward, people-empowered network with more than 370,000 people in 
149 countries. Across assurance, tax and legal, deals and consulting we help build, accelerate and 
sustain momentum. Find out more at www.pwc.com. 
PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member fi ms, each of which is a separate 
legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
© 2025 PwC. All rights reserved. 
Contact us at 
in_gift_support@pwc.com 
Scan for insights 
pwc.in 
Data Classifica ion: DC0 (Public) 
In this document, PwC refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in India having 
Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity. 
This document does not constitute professional advice. The information in this document has been obtained or derived 
from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent 
that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this document represent the 
judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek 
their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, 
based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader 
of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to 
or fail to take. 
© 2025 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. 
SG/September2025-M&C 48298 