IFSCA
(AML, CTF, & KYC)
Compliance
Handbook

+91 98248 84900  info@amlindia.in  www.amlindia.in
Copyright:
NIYEAHMA Consultants LLP
www.niyeahma.com
All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced or
transmitted by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the Company.

Version: May, 2024

Designed by:
Technovisors
www.technovisors.com

Published by:
KMS Publications
7th Floor, Devpath Complex, B/h. Lal Bunglow, Off. C.G. Road,
Ahmedabad - 380 006.
Tel: 079-2646 1526, 6631 5450/ 51 / 52 / 53
Disclaimer:

The book has been prepared for informational purposes only, and
nothing contained in this book constitutes legal advice or any other
form of advice from NIYEAHMA Consultants LLP. Although reasonable
care has been taken to ensure that the information in this book is true
and accurate, such information is provided 'as is' without any warranty,
express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of any such
information. NIYEAHMA Consultants LLP shall not be liable for any losses
incurred by any person from any use of this book or its contents.
Preface:

It is with great pleasure that we present the IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC)
Compliance Handbook. This handbook has been developed with many
hours of research, relying on our diverse experiences and with a lot of
care so that it can serve as a one-stop solution for understanding the
IFSC AML compliance requirements. We are sure that this handbook will
provide readers with an insight into the key aspects of IFSC AML, CTF,
and KYC compliance.

The strategic location of GIFT City and its business-friendly legal and
operations environment have made it a highly attractive global
business hub. The IFSC authority has been instrumental in ensuring
ease of doing business and providing and maintaining a robust
business environment that proactively counters financial crimes and
safeguards the interests of its constituents.

This handbook aims to help regulated entities fight the menace of
money laundering, terrorist financing, and proliferation financing. We
believe that the information and illustrations provided in the handbook
will help principal officers and the compliance team comprehend the
legal requirements quickly and easily.

We would like to acknowledge the team NIYEAHMA’s efforts in providing
valuable input, insights, and contributions to this handbook.

We hope you will find this handbook informative, insightful, and
valuable.

CA Pathik Shah
CA Jyoti Maheshwari
CS Dipali Vora
Table of Content

Introduction                                           01

Regulatory Framework governing AML Compliance          04

At National Level                                      05

At IFSC Level                                          05

Allied Laws                                            06

IFSCA Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide           08

1.0 AML Principal Officer Appointment                  10

2.0 FINGate Registration                               12

3.0 ML/FT Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment              13

4.0 AML/CFT Policies and Procedures                    17

5.0 Customer Due Diligence                             21

5.1 Know Your Customer (KYC)                           24

5.2 Customer Screening                                 26

5.3 Customer Risk Assessment                           26

5.4 Enhanced Customer Due Diligence                    28

5.5 Ongoing monitoring & Periodic CDD Review           30

5.6 Other Compliances                                  31

6.0 Targeted Financial Sanctions                       33

7.0 Identifying and Reporting Suspicious Transactions  35
8.0 AML Governance                             38

8.1 Training                                   38

8.2 Senior Management Involvement and Support  41

8.3 Audit                                      42

9.0 Record-Keeping                             43

About NIYEAHMA                                 45

Our Services                                   48

ML/FT Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment          49

AML Policy and Procedures Documentation        50

In-house AML Compliance Department Set-up      51

AML Software Selection                         53

AML Health Check                               54

AML Training                                   56

Author Profiles                                58
Introduction

                                                                        01
What is Money Laundering?

Money Laundering is a process carried out to route the illegally
obtained funds through a series of transactions to disguise the source
and owner of such illicit proceeds and make is appear as if generated
from legitimate activities.
Money laundering is not the only financial crime hampering the
global socio-economic environment. Various other crimes like
terrorist financing and financing of proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction are also a matter of global concern.

Criminals are inventing new techniques to launder funds, using
technology to create complexities in transactions that are difficult to
detect.
To curb the spread of these financial crimes, efforts are being made
locally as well as internationally by various countries and
inter-governmental organisations.
The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is actively studying evolving
financial crime trends, creating awareness about recent money
laundering, terrorist financing, and proliferation financing techniques,
and developing international standards to mitigate these risks.

 02
                                                                                    Introduction

As of May 2024, more than 200 countries, including India, have adopted
the FATF’s Recommendations on combating money laundering,
terrorism financing and other financial crimes.
The IFSC authority has been instrumental in enhancing the ease of
doing business and fostering a robust business environment that
proactively combats financial crimes and safeguards the interests of
its constituents.

                                                                                              03
        Regulatory
 Framework governing

    AML Compliance

04
                                    Regulatory Framework governing AML Compliance

At National Level

To begin with, the Indian Government introduced the Prevention of
Money Laundering Act, 2002, and corresponding regulations in a
dedicated effort to prevent money laundering.
PMLA aims to prevent money laundering and provides for stringent
penal consequences, including confiscation of property, when the
transaction or the person is identified as associated with or involved in
money laundering.
PMLA and the Prevention of Money Laundering (Maintenance of
Records) Rules, 2005, lay down stringent regulations for the identified
regulated entities, directing them to implement measures like thorough
customer identification, reporting any suspicious transactions,
maintaining AML records, etc.

At IFSC Level

Following the PMLA and the overall FATF Recommendations, the IFSCA
issued the IFSCA (Anti Money Laundering, Counter-Terrorist Financing
and Know Your Customer) Guidelines, 2022.
These IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines elaborate on the methods
the IFSCA-regulated entities must adopt to identify the risk
associated with money laundering and terrorism financing and
deploy adequate risk mitigation measures, such as Customer Due
Diligence and training the team.

                                                                                              05
Allied Laws

The following are the 2 critical enactments that complement the PMLA
and IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines in combating overall financial
crime:

 A. The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967

       This act spells out the requirements related to Targeted
       Financial Sanctions compliance, focusing on combating
       terrorism and terrorist financing activities.

B.  Weapons of Mass Destruction and Their Delivery Systems
    (Prohibition of Unlawful Activities) Act, 2005

    This law lays down the directives to fight the financing of the
    proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.

The IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines along with the provisions of
the PMLA and the allied laws, apply to all companies licensed to
operate in or from IFSC and are subject to supervision by the IFSCA.
Thus, every IFSC entity has to comply with the AML regulations,
irrespective of the nature and size of the business activities—whether
a financial institution or a non-financial business or profession.

06
                                    Regulatory Framework governing AML Compliance

Non-compliance with IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines by an IFSC
entity can result in adverse consequences such as heavy
administrative fines, cancellation, or suspension of business license,
along with reputational damages and loss of customers’ trust and
confidence.

                                                                                              07
IFSCA(AML, CTF, & KYC)
Compliance Roadmap:

  Step-by-Step Guide

08
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

9-Step process to mitigate ML/FT risks

           1.0 AML Principal Officer Appointment

            2.0 FINGate Registration

            3.0 ML/FT Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment

            4.0 AML/CFT Policies and Procedures

             5.0 Customer Due Diligence

                 5.1 KYC
                 5.2 Sanctions Screening
                 5.3 Customer Risk Assessment
                 5.4 Enhanced Customer Due Diligence
                 5.5 Ongoing Monitoring
                 5.6 Other Compliances

            6.0 Targeted Financial Sanctions

            7.0 Identifying and Reporting Suspicious Transactions

             8.0 AML Governance

                 8.1 Training
                 8.2 Senior Management Involvement & Support
                 8.3 Audit

            9.0 Record-Keeping

                                                                                              09
1.0 AML Principal Officer Appointment

IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines mandate that regulated entities
designate an AML Principal Officer (also known as a Compliance
Officer) to handle the entity’s AML measures, ensure regulatory
compliance, and protect the business against financial crime risks.

The person designated as the AML Principal Officer must be a
management-level employee of the entity, having adequate
seniority to make AML-related decisions.

AML Principal Officer serves as a cornerstone to the regulated entity’s
AML functions, designing the overall compliance and risk mitigation
framework and overseeing its effective implementation.

 10
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

The role of an AML Principal Officer is crucial in ensuring compliance
with the IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines.

             Appointment of a Principal Officer

           A management-level employee
           Hold adequate seniority and authority
           Must have:

             Suitable qualiﬁcation and competence
            Adequate resources
            Access to relevant data, including customers and transactions
           Avoid conﬂict of interest
           Independent of routine business functions

               Key Roles and Responsibilities
          Overseeing and promoting AML Compliance across the organization
          Ensuring performance of ongoing monitoring of business relations
          Updating the team and senior management on the AML-related regulatory
          amendments
          Promptly addressing the ML/FT suspicions
          Reporting the suspicious transactions to FIU-IND
          Training the employees around AML/CFT measures
          Periodically reviewing the entity’s compliance with AML/CFT regulations
          Timely reporting of AML/CFT compliance issues, ML/FT risks, and remedial
          measures to senior management

                                                                                               11
2.0 FINGate Registration

All regulated entities licensed with IFSCA are mandatorily required to
register with the Financial Intelligence Unit of India (FIU-IND) by
completing the enrolment on the FINGate 2.0 Portal.
The registration process involves furnishing the details about the
business, the Principal Officer, and the regulated entity’s Designated
Director, who shall take care of the AML program within the
organisation.
Non-registration with FIU-IND is treated as non-compliance with the
IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines.

FINGate 2.0 is the primary platform through which data associated
with money laundering or other crimes is furnished to FIU-IND.
FINGate 2.0 is FINNET 2.0’s front-end web portal used by regulated
entities to report suspicious financial transactions.

  12
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

3.0 ML/FT Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment

The degree or the nature of the money laundering or terrorism
financing exposure of each regulated entity varies. And so does the
extent of risk mitigation measures.
Thus, the IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines provide for adopting a
Risk-Based Approach to manage risk and optimise resource
utilisation. Under a risk-based approach, a regulated entity's primary
task is to identify and understand the source or factors emitting the
risks and tailor the controls and overall AML program commensurate
with the ML/FT risk assessed.
Here comes the need to conduct the Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment
(EWRA) to evaluate and assess the money laundering and financing of
terrorism risks associated with the entity’s operations, business model,
etc.

                                                                                               13
The Risk Factors

The risk may arise from various factors contributing to the business.
Thus, the regulated must assess the potential ML/FT risks posed by
various risk parameters such as:

  The nature and overall profile of the customer the regulated entity
  engages with
  The jurisdictions of the regulated entity’s customers
  The nature of the products and services offered by the regulated
  entity
  Size and the complexity of the financial transactions
  Delivery or the distribution channels deployed, etc.
  Risks posed by the development of new product, practices, and
  technologies

 14
             IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

ML/FT Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment

                    Identiﬁcation of the Risk

              Identify the ML/FT risk the business is exposed to considering the
              following risk parameters-

                 Type of customer & their business activities
                 Geographies of business engagement
                 Products and Services offered
                 Delivery channels involved
                 Transactions – volume and complexity
                 Development of new product, practices and technologies

            Analysis of Risk

              Determining the probability of occurrence of risk and its
              resulting impact on the business

             AML/CFT Policies & Control

              Adopting Risk-Based Approach, determine the controls required to
              manage and mitigate the identiﬁed ML/FT risks. Deﬁne and implement
              the policies, procedures, and systems

                                                                                             15
The Analysis and Way Forward

Once the relevant risk factors have been identified, the regulated entity
must evaluate the possibility of such risk occurring and its impact on
the business.
This analysis will help the regulated entity determine the level and
nature of risk mitigation measures (controls and systems) required to
handle these risks.
Thus, after assessing the risk and the required measures, the regulated
entity must outline a larger ML/FT risk management and compliance
framework.

The Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment helps regulated entities
uncover the ML/FT risks and adopt a customised risk management
framework, targeting the threats with effective use of available
resources.

As the entire AML program is developed on the foundation of the EWRA,
it is important to ensure its relevance, accuracy, and
comprehensiveness. Thus, the regulated entity must review and
update the EWRA at least once every two (2) years or upon a
significant change in risk parameters or business operations,
whichever is earlier.

 16
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

4.0 AML/CFT Policies and Procedures

IFSC-regulated entities are required to craft business-specific AML/CFT
policies and procedures to mitigate financial crime risks and comply
with IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines.
This AML/CFT program must be comprehensive and include the
relevant policies, procedures, controls, and systems for timely
detection, prevention, and reporting of money laundering or terrorism
financing risks.
The AML/CFT program must be in proportion to the nature and size of
the business and the applicable regulatory obligations. AML/CFT
policies and procedures must be developed considering the outcome
of the EWRA and the provisions of the relevant laws, specifically the
updated IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines.

                                                                                               17
Elements of the AML/CFT Policies and Procedures

  Commitment to a risk-based approach and risk assessment
  mechanism

  Customer onboarding process, highlighting the Customer Due
  Diligence Process

  Implementation of the Targeted Financial Sanctions regime and
  other international directives

  Process on identification and reporting of the ML/FT suspicious
  transactions

  AML compliance governance framework

  AML process

 18
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

Features of Effective AML Policies and Procedures

            Easy to understand
            Practical to implement in the course of business operations
            Empower the risk management efforts
            Enable AML regulatory compliance

The regulated entity’s AML/CFT program must be reviewed and
approved by the senior management. These internal policies must be
well-communicated within the organization, encouraging employee
engagement and contribution towards ML/FT combat mission.

The Principal Officer must periodically review and upgrade these
defined AML/CFT policies, procedures, and controls to keep them real,
relevant, valid and effective.

                                                                                              19
Top 10 Deficiencies around AML Policies and Procedures

 01 Not covering all the Essential Elements
 02 Unsatisfactory Documentation of a Risk-Based Approach
 03 Inadequate EDD Procedures
 04 Ineffective Ongoing Monitoring Procedures
 05 Missing Authorization
 06 Inadequate Change Management
 07 Not Updated with the Latest Regulatory Requirements
 08 Inadequate Communication about AML policies and procedures
 09 Missing out on procedures on Countering the Proliferation Financing
  10 Improper Record-Keeping Measures
 20
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

5.0 Customer Due Diligence

One of the risk mitigation measures at the core of the AML/CFT
program is the Customer Due Diligence (CDD) process.
The CDD program empowers regulated entities to restrict the entry of
financial criminals into their businesses by making efforts to identify
potential customers attempting to launder funds or conduct
transactions that may involve illegal proceeds or purposes.
The CDD is a process involving multiple components that assist in
identifying the customer, assessing the potential risk the customer may
pose to the business and deploying the appropriate measures to
manage this risk.

                                                                                               21
Customer Due Diligence
                  WHAT is Customer Due Diligence?

                          Identifying the customer and the beneficial owners
                          Verifying the identity using reliable sources
                          Understanding the nature and purpose of the business
                          relationship
                          Ongoing monitoring of business relationships and transactions

                  WHEN is Customer Due Diligence required?

                          At the time of establishing a business relationship
                          Doubt about the accuracy or adequacy of the details/
                          documents of existing customer
                          When ML/FT suspicion is observed in a business relationship
                          Change in customer’s risk profile

The CDD process must be carried out before establishing the business
relationship to determine the identity of the prospective customer.
However, in certain exceptional circumstances, regulated entities are
permitted to delay the identity verification process.

 22
IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

The Key Elements of an Effective CDD Process

15.1  Know Your Customer

15.2  Sanctions Screening

15.3  Customer Risk Assessment

15.4  Enhanced Customer Due Diligence

15.5  Ongoing monitoring & Periodic CDD Review

                                                23
5.1 Know Your Customer (KYC)

Know Your Customer, or KYC, is a process aimed at identifying the
customer with whom the regulated entity is already engaged or
proposes to engage.
The KYC process primarily revolves around seeking the identification
details of natural and legal customers. Once the customer details are
collated, the regulated entity must verify the authenticity of all such
customer information using reliance and independent sources.

5.1.1 Natural Person

KYC details for an individual customer would include full name, unique
identification number, date of birth, nationality, address, and contact
details.
To verify the customer's identity and address, the regulated entity must
obtain an identity document that contains a photograph of the
customer, name, unique identification number, date of birth, and
nationality.
For residential address verification, the regulated entity can refer to the
" Officially Valid Documents” obtained for identity verifications or other
documents like recent utility bills, bank statements, etc.

 24
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

5.1.2 Legal Person

KYC information for a legal person would cover full legal name, trading
name, unique identification number, registered or business address,
principal place of business, date and place of incorporation.
Additionally, it is important to understand the customer's legal form,
constitution, ownership, and controlling structure.
A regulated entity must obtain a certificate of incorporation,
partnership deed/agreement, trust deed, constitutional document,
certificate of registration, or any other document to verify its legal form
and structure.

5.1.3 Representative and Beneficial Owners

A regulated entity must take the necessary steps to identify and verify
the national person appointed by the customer to act on their behalf.
In case when the customer is a legal person or a legal arrangement,
the regulated entities are also required to understand the customer’s
control or ownership structure and identify the beneficial owner of the
customer.

                                                                                              25
5.2 Customer Screening

Customer screening is a critical aspect of the CDD program (along
with being crucial to the implementation of the Targeted Financial
Sanctions program) that assists the regulated entities in identifying
whether any customers are sanctioned or designated under the UNSC
Lists or the local list of banned persons.
Along with sanctions checks, the screening process will also help
uncover if the customer has some connection with criminal activities,
including financial crime, or is a Politically Exposed Person, where the
potential vulnerabilities increase.
This screening strengthens the regulated entity's efforts to identify the
customer and determine the degree of exposure that such a customer
may emit to the business.

5.3 Customer Risk Assessment

As part of the CDD process, the regulated entities must assess the level
of money laundering and terrorist financing risk the customer poses to
the business and develop the customer risk profile.
This risk assessment would assist the regulated entity in classifying the
customer as high, medium or low, taking into account various risk
parameters.

 26
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

Risk Assessment Parameters

            Ownership & management structure
            Nature & purpose of business relationship
            Location of customer
            Nature of customer's activites
            Estimated size or value of the transaction
            Timing & seasonality of transactions
            Involvement of counterparties & intermediaries
            Customer's ﬁnancial proﬁle

                                                                                              27
This customer risk profiling would enable the regulated entity to
determine the level of due diligence measures to be applied to each
customer, adopting the risk-based approach.
For example, simplified due diligence may be followed when the
customer is identified as low risk or enhanced customer due diligence
measures may be used to mitigate the increased ML/FT risk.

5.4 Enhanced Customer Due Diligence

The regulated entities must apply Enhanced Customer Due Diligence
measures when dealing with high-risk customers.

 28
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

Enhanced Customer Due Diligence Process: Additional Checks and
Verification Measures

           Collect additional information about the customer -
           Occupation, Information available through public databases
           and internet (adverse media and social media search)

           Examine the ﬁnancial position of the customer and beneﬁcial
           owners- Source of Wealth and Source of Funds using
           independent inquiry with client, using credible database

           Understand and record the purpose of transaction and nature
           of business relationship

           Obtain senior management approval

           Enhanced ongoing monitoring of the business
           relationship (customer proﬁle and transactions)

           First payment through customer’s own bank account following
           adequate CDD procedures

                                                                                              29
5.5 Ongoing Monitoring & Periodic CDD Review

Ongoing monitoring of business relationships is very crucial to
detect unusual or suspicious activities. This includes scrutinising the
transactions and maintaining the customer profile up-to-date.

An ongoing and comprehensive review of the business relationship
will help the regulated entity evaluate the transaction pattern in a
timely manner and determine if there are any anomalies or if such
transactions align with the customer’s risk profile.

Further, the IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines. mandate that
regulated entities review all their customers against the UNSC
sanctions lists and other relevant sanctions lists, including the local
list of banned individuals and organisations.

The frequency or ongoing monitoring of transactions and business
relationships depends upon the customer’s ML/FT risk profile, i.e., the
higher the risk, the more stringent the monitoring norms.

Frequency for Periodic Review and Updating CDD Files

                                                       3 years

       ars            Medium-Risk                       A
                       Customers                         n
      e                                                   n
                                                            u
     y
                                                               a
    5
            Low-Risk                                                                     ll

          Customers                                                       y

                                   High-Risk
                                   Customers

30
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

5.6 Other Compliances

5.6.1 Specific Due Diligence Measures

The IFSC entities are required to adopt additional risk mitigation
measures to handle the increased risk involved in correspondent
banking relationships and wire transfer transactions.
In the context of correspondent banking, the relevant regulated
entities must deploy measures to adequately identify the
correspondent bank, assess the risk associated with such a
relationship, and evaluate the correspondent bank's AML compliance
status. Further, the regulated entity must also obtain management
approval prior to establishing such a relationship.
With respect to wire transfers handled by the regulated entities, the
regulated entities must identify the transferor and the receipt involved
in the wire transfer and exchange such information along with the
transfer request to the intermediary or the recipient financial institution.

5.6.2 Central KYC Registry

The regulated entities are required to capture the customer’s KYC
records and upload the same on the Central KYC Registry (CKYCR), in
case of an account-based relationship with an Indian national.

                                                                                               31
5.6.3 Reliance on Third Parties

The IFSCA permits the regulated entities to rely on third parties for
Customer Due Diligence measures.
Here, the reliance on third parties for CDD suggests that a regulated
entity relies upon and refers to the CDD information of a person with
whom the third party already has an existing client relationship, and
such third party has performed adequate CDD processes, including
customer identification and identity verification.

 32
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

6.0 Targeted Financial Sanctions

The IFSC entities are required to comply with the international
directives from the United Nations Security Council and Section 51A of
the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, regarding international
targeted financial sanctions.
As part of the Targeted Financial Sanctions (TFS) program, the
regulated entities are required to screen each customer, beneficial
owner, and other business partner to determine if any of these
individuals or legal persons have been designated by the UNSC or the
Ministry of Home Affairs and, if so, refrain from engaging with such
designated person subject to targeted financial sanctions.
As part of TFS, the regulated entities must conduct screening against:

  ISIL (Da’esh) &Al-Qaida Sanctions List
  1988 Sanctions List
  Local list of banned entities and individuals issued by the Ministry of
  Home Affairs
If any person is identified as sanctioned, the regulated entity must
apply the freezing measures (freezing the assets or funds of such
designated person) and immediately, not later than 24 hours, report
the person to the Nodal Officer.

                                                                                              33
The regulated entities have a similar freezing and reporting obligation
under Section 12A of the Weapons of Mass Destruction and their
Delivery Systems (Prohibition of Unlawful Activities) Act, 2005.
Here, the IFSC entities are prohibited from engaging with the
countries, organisations or persons sanctioned by the UNSC or the
local authorities in the context of being associated with the financing
of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Similar to TFS, the regulated entity must freeze the resources of such a
sanctioned person and intimate the relevant details to the Nodal
Officer within 24 hours.

 34
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

7.0 Identifying and Reporting Suspicious
    Transactions

The entire AML/CFT program revolves around the timely identification
and reporting of transactions suspected of being associated with
money laundering, terrorism financing or involving the proceeds of
crime.
The regulated entities are obligated to define the necessary internal
procedures and systems to foster the detection and reporting of
suspicious transactions. This includes developing a sector-specific list
of the risk indicators or ML/FT red flags that the team must understand
and be cautious of to spot the attempted ML/FT activities in a timely
manner.

                                                                                              35
4-Step Process for Identification and Reporting of Suspicious
Transactions

    Detect suspicious indicators

01  Identify the red-ﬂags or risk indicators suggesting funds are

    from illegal activity or transaction attempted to hide the

    source of criminal proceeds.

    Ask questions to the customer

02  Inquire the customer to seek a reasonable explanation for

    the detected ML/FT indicators No “tipping off!”

    Review customer records

03  Review customer information and past transaction to

    understand whether the indicators are justiﬁable and

    consistent with the customer’s proﬁle.

    Evaluate collected information

    Evaluate suspicious indicators, the explanation offered by the

04  customer and the customer’s proﬁle to determine whether

    the transaction is linked to proceeds of crime or terrorism

    ﬁnancing If yes, ﬁle STR with the FIU-IND.

36
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

Once the risk indicator is identified and the regulated entity has
reasonable grounds to suspect the involvement of the ML/FT, the same
must be reported to the FIU-IND by submitting a Suspicious Transaction
Report (STR) without any delay.
During this entire process of identifying and reporting the suspicion, the
regulated entity and team must ensure there is no “tipping off” to the
customer or third party.

                                                                                              37
8.0 AML Governance

For effective and successful implementation of the AML program and
ensuring compliance with the IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines, the
regulated entities must develop a robust AML compliance governance
structure.
The key components of a good AML governance framework are:

8.1 Training

To effectively implement the AML program across the organisation, the
support of the entire workforce is crucial.
Here, a regular and well-designed AML training program will be helpful
in creating awareness and equipping the team with the necessary AML
knowledge and skills to identify the risk indicators and handle money
laundering and terrorism financial risks.
An effective AML training program must include job-specific sessions,
along with general AML conceptual discussions.

 38
    IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

Fundamental Aspects to be included in the AML Training Agenda

    01 ML/FT typologies and potential vulnerabilities

02  IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines and the compliance obligations
    imposed thereunder

03  Risk factors and methodology for conducting Enterprise-Wide
    Risk Assessment

04 Customer Due Diligence (including KYC, customer risk
         assessment, Enhanced Customer Due Diligence)

05 Understanding the red flags

06 Recognizing and reporting the Suspicious Transactions

07 AML documentation requirements

08  Implementation of the sanctions program and the screening
    systems

09  Roles and responsibilities of employees and the consequences
    of non-compliance

                                                                  39
Significance of AML Training

    Understand AML                 AML      Have sound
    regulatory                Training for  knowledge of ML/FT
    framework                 empowering    typologies
                              employees
    Comprehend and                          Identify the
    impelement internal             to      transactions
    AML Program                             related to ML/FT

    Understand own                          Promptly report the
    duties towards AML                      identiﬁed ML/FT
                                            suspicions

            *Relevant Employees (including new joiners):

    Senior    Employees       Compliance                      Any other
Management  engaging with         Team                     employee who
                                                          may encounter
              customers                                   & ML/FT red ﬂags

40
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

8.2 Senior Management Involvement and Support

Senior management is responsible for setting the right tone at the top
for effective AML/CFT compliance and governance culture.
Further, the senior management of the regulated entities plays a vital
role in reviewing and approving the AML/CFT program, ensuring that
the necessary controls are in place to mitigate the risks.
Additional AML Functions entrusted upon the Senior Management

          Ensuring compliance and efficacy of AML/CFT Policy

          Appointment of AML Principal Officer

          Approval to onboard high-risk customer
          Ensuring compliance with the IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC)
          Guidelines
          Timely & effective action against non-compliance

                                                                                              41
8.3 Audit

The IFSC entities must have an AML audit function to periodically test
the effectiveness and quality of the AML/CFT program and identify the
gaps that need improvement.
The AML audit function must be independent and be adequately
staffed to carry out the audit diligently.
Activities to perform during AML Audit

          Check adequacy of Internal AML/CFT Framework

          Evaluate quality and timeliness of reporting (internal and external)

          Check compliance with internal AML Program
          Evaluate the application of the Risk-Based Approach

          EWRA: Adequacy of risk assessed & methodology adopted

          Evaluate adequacy of the AML Training

With this regular review, the entities can ensure that their AML efforts
stay relevant and efficient in managing the ML/FT risk.

 42
              IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Compliance Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide

9.0 Record-Keeping

The essentials of Record-Keeping

  Time Period

    For a minimum period of six (6) years from:
       End of the business relationship, or
       Completion of the transaction

  Records To Be Maintained

       Documents and information on Customer Due Diligence, including Customer Risk
       Assessment and ongoing monitoring
       Records pertaining to ML/FT Business Risk Assessment
       Records about transactions
       Observations related to unusual or suspicious activities and internal intimations filed
       with the Principal Officer
       STRs filed with FIU-IND
       AML training logs

  Proper Maintenance Of Adequate AML Records
    The AML records maintained by the regulated entity must allow the following:

       Easy retrieval of the records when requested by the authorities
       Assessment of the level of the entity’s regulatory compliance by IFSCA
       Reconstruction of the already executed transaction
       Identification of a customer

                                                                                              43
The regulated entities are permitted to retain the AML records in an
electronic form or can even be kept outside IFSC. Here, the only
condition is that such records must be easily accessible and
maintained in a manner that adheres to the IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC)
Guidelines.

 44
About NIYEAHMA

                                                                                 45
Inspired by the Sanskrit term

“ िनयमा ”

which means rules, laws, and order,
we call our professional organisation – NIYEAHMA
as we say “yeah”/YES to these rules and regulations and help
you comply with them.

NIYEAHMA is a global AML consulting firm in India assisting reporting
entities to comply with the requirements of the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 and the International Financial Service Centre
Authority (AML, CTF, and KYC) Guidelines, 2022.
We are continuously striving to improve businesses' compliance in
India, helping them implement relevant controls, improve KYC and
customer onboarding processes, and assist in setting up a solid
in-house AML compliance department to reduce money laundering
risks.
With our years of global experience in AML/CFT compliance and
understanding of regulated businesses, we offer tailored consultancy
services.

  46
                                                                              About NIYEAHMA

We conduct Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessments to identify the entity’s
exposure to financial crime risk and determine the necessary controls
and systems to mitigate these risks. Based on this assessment, we
design a comprehensive, tailor-made AML compliance program where
business safety against vulnerabilities seamlessly meets AML
compliance.
We understand your AML compliance requirements and design a
business-specific AML training program.
With our end-to-end AML support, master your AML compliance and
timely manage the money laundering risks.

                                                                                              47
       Our Services

48
                                                                                    Our Services

ML/FT Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment

NIYEAHMA helps companies carry out their business risk assessment
and control AML risks. It helps organisations identify inherent and
residual risks related to products, services, customers, delivery
channels, and geographies.
Businesses can assess their ML/FT risk exposure and apply suitable
policies and controls to mitigate such risks and keep them within the
limits of their risk appetite.
Our Approach to Business Risk Assessment

 01 Understanding the Business

 02 Identifying the Risk Scenarios

 03 Risk Classification and Impact Analysis

 04 Defining Controls and Monitoring

An Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment performed on the basis of
reliable qualitative and quantitative data ensures that the regulated
entities’ ML/FT risks are within their risk appetite.

                                                                                              49
AML Policy and Procedures Documentation

We create for you the right policies, rules, and procedures revolving
around the AML/CFT regulatory framework and your business exposure.
We have a deep understanding of all the laws, regulations, rules,
guidelines, and notifications related to AML/CFT and understand its
implications; we use this knowledge and experience to develop the apt
AML/CFT policies and procedures for your business operations.
We also frame guidelines and manuals for KYC, CDD, and EDD to make
your operations efficient and smooth. Our AML policy, controls, and
procedures documentation service is comprehensive enough to cover
each aspect of AML/CFT regulation.

We use internationally accepted best practices of AML compliance to
create your AML/CFT program that can reduce your business’s
exposure to illicit money.

  50
                                                                                   Our Services

In-house AML Compliance Department Set-up

We at NIYEAHMA have the expertise to develop an AML/CFT compliance
department for your organisation.
Our Process:

   01 Studying the business to identify AML requirements
   02 Appointment of AML Principal Officer and Competent Team
   03 Developing AML/CFT Program
   04 Defining the Roles and Responsibilities
   05 Imparting adequate AML Training
   06 Here you go with a strong In-house AML Compliance Department

                                                                                               51
We can help you set up an in-house AML compliance department to
handle everything related to your organisation's AML/CFT programs
and policies.
With such a compliance department in place in the organisation, you
will be better positioned to identify the risks to your business, develop
policies to mitigate them and achieve compliance with AML/CFT
requirements.

 52
                                                                                   Our Services

AML Software Selection

AML software enables organisations to comply with the legal
requirements created to fight financial crime in the world. The adoption
of the right AML software is a part of the AML strategy and AML
compliance program to identify suspicious transactions, clients, and
business partners.
NIYEAHMA has a good network of AML software and solution providers
that excel in their offerings and provide feature-rich, scalable, and
cost-effective solutions that align with the general AML/CFT and KYC
compliance needs.

Our team of business analysts, technology enthusiasts, and AML
experts understands the basic needs of AML software—KYC,
screening, transaction monitoring, and overall compliance with AML
regulations — and, therefore, suggests solutions to shift you from
non-compliance to compliance .

                                                                                              53
AML Health Check

Protect your business against money laundering and terrorist financing
risks with a proactive approach.
The AML/CFT Health check will help you understand where your entity
stands in terms of applicable AML/CFT guidelines. This quick and easy
solution will help your business determine which areas require
immediate attention and improvements.

We will provide you with our AML Health check report, which includes:

  01 Review of the existing AML program

02 High-level observation of the company’s AML framework

03 Identifying areas for process improvements, if any

04  Recommending the remediation plan to smoothen
    the AML process

05  Observations on the overall AML compliance level of
    the company

54
                                                         Our Services

We will provide you with our AML Health check report, which includes:
  01 Review of the existing AML program

02 High-level observation of the company’s AML framework

03 Identifying areas for process improvements, if any

04  Recommending the remediation plan to smoothen
    the AML process

05  Observations on the overall AML compliance level of
    the company

                                                          55
AML Training

NIYEAHMA is an expert provider of AML compliance consulting services,
including relevant AML/CFT training for employees, including the
compliance team and senior management.
We provide customised training based on the industry of your business
operations. Our tailor-made AML training program for your employees
makes your organisation capable enough to handle AML compliance
requirements so that you become safe from any possibility of money
laundering and terrorism financing activities.

 56
                                                                                   Our Services

Our AML Training program:

 01 Understanding the concept – AML, CFT and CPF
 02 FINGate Portal and registration thereon
 03 Relevant regulations (IFSCA (AML, CTF, & KYC) Guidelines, including PMLA)
 04 Enterprise-Wide Risk Assessment
 05 AML Compliance Program (Policies and Procedures)
 06 KYC & CDD/EDD, decoding beneficial ownership
 07 STR and other AML Reporting Requirements
 08 Sanctions compliance
 09 Principal Officer Roles & Responsibilities
 10 Effects of AML International Bodies – FATF
  11 Record Keeping
 12 Sectoral Red Flags

                                                                                              57
      About Authors

58
Pathik is a Chartered Accountant                   About Authors
with more than 25 years of
experience in compliance                   Pathik Shah
management, Anti-Money                          Founder
Laundering, risk management,
system audits, technology               FCA, CAMS, CISA, CS,
consulting, and digital marketing.    DISA (ICAI), FAFP (ICAI)

He has extensive knowledge of
local and international AML rules
and regulations. He helps
companies with end-to-end AML
compliance services, from
understanding the AML
business-specific risk to
implementing the robust AML
Compliance framework.

Pathik leads the firm from the front
and is responsible for giving it
strategic direction.

                                      59
Jyoti Maheshwari  Jyoti is a Chartered Accountant
                  and Certified Anti-Money
Partner           Laundering Specialist (CAMS),
                  having around 7 years of hands-on
ACA, CAMS         experience in regulatory
                  compliance, legal advisory,
                  policy-making, tax consultation,
                  and technology project
                  implementation.

                  Jyoti holds experience with AML
                  regulations prevalent across
                  various countries. She helps
                  companies with risk assessment,
                  designing and deploying adequate
                  mitigation measures, and
                  implementing the best
                  international practices to combat
                  money laundering and other
                  financial crimes.

60
Dipali is an Associate member of       About Authors
ICSI and has a Bachelor's in
Commerce and a General Law          Dipali Vora
degree. She has 7 years of overall      Partner
experience in the compliance
domain, including Anti-Money                     ACS
Laundering, due diligence,
secretarial audit, and managing
scrutiniser functions.

She currently assists clients by
advising and helping them
navigate the legal and regulatory
challenges of AML laws. She also
helps companies develop,
implement, and maintain effective
AML/CFT and sanctions programs.

She specialises in Enterprise-Wide
Risk Assessment, Customer Due
Diligence, and Customer Risk
Assessment.

                                    61
info@amlindia.in     info@niyeahma.com
www.amlindia.in      www.niyeahma.com

                  Follow us on
