SOURCE FILE: Bullion.pdf
PAGES: 23
SOURCE NOTE: OCR text copied from COMPLETE_PDF_DIGEST.txt because direct PDF text extraction was blank.

--- Page 1 ---
Bu.iion CIRCULARS
Ql. Which of the following are eligible to become members of the Bullion exchange
subject to prior registration with the Authority for trading in bullion depository
receipts?
1. Banking Units at IFSC z
2. Subsidiaries of entities dealing with financial products set up in an IFSC
3. Banks authorized by RBI to deal in bullion
4. Nominated Agencies authorized by DGFT to deal in bullion
A. 1 and 2 ‘ ’
B. 2 and 3 : :
C. 3 and 4 = é
D. 1,2 and4 : = wie as
E. All of the above z = 5 ie - = =
Solution: (E) All of the above ; . 35 3S 55 3%
i= #5 ue 2
The following are eligible to become.members of the Bullion Exchange subject
to prior registration with the Authority for trading in bullion depository
receipts: a +
* Banking Units at IFSC, Se ie me g
* Subsidiaries/Branches of entities dealing with financial products, setup
in an IFSC. : : é : ;
* Banks authorized by RBI and Nominated Agencies authorized by
Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) to deal in bullion.
Q2. Margin based Trading of bullion depository receipts with underlying bullion is
available for only those trades where settlement will be,carried out on
B. T+1 == #2
C. T+2 af Ey
D. T+3 ae
E. BorC ,
Solution: (E) B or C i.e., T+1 or T+2 basis
Members shall be allowed to undertake Spot Trading of the Bullion Depository
Receipts with underlying bullion in the following manner:
www.cgbmentors.com| infoacgbmentors.com | 9310558455
1
(@ = Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 2 ---
« The Bullion Exchange shall enable bullion trading in bulliondepository I
receipts, in relation to bullionspot delivery contracts.
* Incase of bullion contracts where the settlement is likely to be on T+0O basis,
the funds are required to be available prior to initiation of the trade by the
trading member or its customers.
* Margin based trading is to be available for only those trades where the
settlement will be carried out on T+1 or T+2 basis.
Q3. The price in a block trade shall be within +/- what percentage of the ongoing
market price in the Bullion Exchange? be
A. 0.252) s¢3G12%
B. 0.5 '
C.O.75. 8228s ieee :
D. MOO PEL Re esse es ii
Sohution: (B) +/-0.5:% 0 fs
« Block deals refer to trading of such’ quantity of bullion as specified below, at
a price negotiated ‘Bilaterally. through a window enabled by the Bullion
Exchange between thetracding members. The price in a block trade shall be
within +/- 0.5 per cent ofthe ongoing market price in the Bullion Exchange.
ee 9. Ceeeror eae ah hee
Q4. What is the minimum quantity of block deal in case of Gold? :
pester PeeeeeRer eT eC ERE LEEPER
Bi 100 kgs eS eset a ae
C. 2504eha SPEEA AES TA RE
E. 1000-kgss FEC a Nee a NET ET!
Solution: (B) 100 ep BESS ERSTE cos
* Each blocls dealshall ‘be of ‘cuantity ‘not less than 100 Kilograms in case of
Gold or 3500 Kilogramé in case of silver. eatea
Q5. Trading members of bullion exchange should have at least how many employees
with experience of not less than two years of experience in dealing in securities or
foreign exchange or precious metals?" ‘
A. 3 aecegat ty
D4 GE ER AY Be |
iy hed
www.cgbmentors.com| infowcogbmentors.com | 9310558455
2 ¥
fe3 Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 3 ---
| Solution: (A) 1
Trading Member:
(1) Trading members shall have at least 1 employee having experience not lesz
than two years of experience in dealing in securities or foreign exchange or :
precious metals, :
(2) Trading members shall have professional competence and general reputation
of fairness and integrity in business transactions. athe
QS. Market-making members of bullion exchange shall have personnel having
a hci ey of minimum how many years and sound knowledge in precious Metals
Al eee Ot:
B. 2 aR Re rh 3 ase
Solution: (C)3 Years) aa ped i ge
Market-making member _ a ex
@) Market-maki nber ‘shall HAva lan eck ace, ; i es
edt an ated expat Liutyegge ect in Preciounsctale |
@) Market-making member shall be having aac conn os =
Meccan Seisting Bxchanges (WN in ie e OF Hcense to operate
(@) Market-making member shay cp : ae =
cg Paylsell auctes on the ta a PApabuity to provide two- way |
4) Market making members shall have peréoiet 1... i
- — and sound Knowledge in Precio Metals iaacenrnee of minimum
arket-making member aa He lalla Tanti ae
Bullion Exchange, |) Cte it i A ii i de-register voluntarily from the
Q7. What the minimum tangib Saas EO PT Meeps ee aT PVC eee Ee) a ah og ta
- le net worth that ‘has to te .:.4.:
for a B NIBH worn that ‘has to b 5
m en Refinery to *stablish as an IFSC Unit> * msintained at alt times
D. USD 8 man Wa | He
E. USD 9 mn | Al | i Hi
{ iN 1 A |
Sohution: (B) USD 7 ray \ i! i i }
B : Wilh} t |
ra Refinery as rgc Unit | \ |
Eligibitity Criterja; MA I il
ete Wie |
Www .crbmentors om] cg mememeentnittal ttttadbhayld EL
fi | fo 1 ’ byihidehbelation eee ee —— is
inlo@egbmentora.com | 9310558455 eo
3
(@ = Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 4 ---
ss (formerly Crac radeB
© Tangible net worth at all times not less than USD 7 million as per its latest
audited financial statement.
Q8. What is the minimum experience in refining activities for the metal sought to
be refined in an IFSCA required for it to establish a Bullion Refinery as IFSC Unit?
A. 1 years
B. 2 years
Cc. 3 years
D. 4 years
B. 5S years
Solution: (i) 5 years
Bullion Refinery as IFSC Unit
Eligibility Criteria:
oc Minimum experience of 5 years in refining activities for the metal sought to be z
refined in an IFSC.
e Annual refining production of not less than 5 tonnes for gold, not less than 25 :
tonnes for silver or as prescribed for other precious metals, in each of the year in
last 3 years.
© Tangible net worth at all times not less than USD 7 million as per its latest
audited financial statement.
Q9. Every bullion clearing corporation shall establish, The Settlement Guarantee
Fund which shall have a corpus equivalent to at least the minimum required corpus
as arrived from the monthly stress test value or................ whichever is higher.
A. USD 10 million =
B. USD 15 million scree faeries on
Cc. USD 50 million
D. USD 1 million
E. USD 5 million :
Solution: (D) USD 1 million
The Settlement Guarantee fund:
The Fund shell have a corpus equivalent to at least the minimum required corpus as
arrived frorn the monthly stress test value or USD 1 million, whichever is higher.
G10. All the trades on Bullion Exchange shall be cleared and settled by which of
the following?
A. Indian Clearing Corporation
www .cgbmentors.com| infoweghmentors,com | 9310558455 rr
i]
[e3 Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 5 ---
C. Bullion Clearing Corporation |
D. Multi Commodity Exchange Clearing Corporation |
Sohition: (C) Bullion Clearing Corporation
© The Bullion Clearing Corporation shall settle the trades executed on the
bullion exchange by transferring bullion depository receipt and funds to the
buyer and seller of Bullion Depository Receipts (BDRs) respectively.
Qi1. Except for VAR margins and loss margins, the requisite margins are to be
deposited within how many hours of margin call?
A. 12 hours
B. 24 hours
Cc. 18 hours
D. 24 hours
E. 48 hours
Sohution: (D) 24 hours
Margining Framework
e Except for VAR margins and loss margins, the requisite margins are to be
deposited within 24 hours of margin calls.
Qi2. Bullion clearing corporations shall be permitted to accept as collateral, cash,
gold and cash equivalent forming at least what percentage of total assets at all
times?
& 25
B. 50
Cc. 76
D. 60
E. 90
Solution: (B) 50 %
= Bullion Clearing corporations shall be permitted to accept as collateral:

* Cash, Gold (with the underlying Bullion Depository receipt) and cash
equivalents (Major foreign currencies, term deposit receipts issued by
banking units at IFSC) forming at least 50% of the total assets at all
tanes

* Sovereign bonds with an “A-"or higher (or equivalent) sovereign bend

Q13. Whot is the minimum net worth of the clearing member in the bullion clearing
corporation?
wwrw.cgbmentors.com| infodcgbmentors.com | 9310558455 5
|
(@ = Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 6 ---
‘W Tolecram Cnanner ee
{formerly CrackGradeB,
egulati
A. USD 5 mn
B. USD 10 mn
c. USD 15 mn
D. USD 20 mn
E. USD 25 mn
Solution: (B) USD 10 mn
o The Net-worth of the Clearing member shall be not less than $ 10 Million.
Q14. The Bullion Clearing Corporation shall settle the obligations of penalties by
using 1" in order which of the following funds?
A. Insurance, if any
B. Funds of Defaulting member, including his primary contribution to SGFs
C. Bullion Clearing Corporation Resources
D. Bullion Clearing Corporation contribution to the extent of at least 12.5% of the
MRC
E. Penalties
Solution: (B) Funds of Defaulting member, including his primary contribution to SGFs
The Bullion Clearing Corporation shall settle the obligations by using funds in
the following order — ‘ :
¢ Funds of defaulting member, inchiding his primarycontribution to SGF(s).
e Insurance, if any. :
e Bullion Clearing Corporation resources (equal to 5% of the MRC).
e In case above funds not sufficient then’ the contributions to Settlement
Guarantee Fund may be utilized in the following order:
= Penalties ;
= Bullion Clearing Corporation contribution to the extent of at least 12.5%
of the MRC.
*» Remaining portion of SGF: Bullion Clearing Corporation contribution,
Bullion Exchange contribution and non-defaulting members’ primary
contribution to SGF on pro-rata basis.
(Bullion Clearing Corporation shall limit the liability of non-defaulting
members towards additional contribution)
Q15. How often the physical bars deposited in the vault along with details provided
during creation of BDRs by the vault managers needs to be checked by the bullion
depository ?
A. Weelcdy
B. Fortnightly
Cc, Monthly
vr.egbmentors.com| infoweghmentors.com | 9310558455
6
(@ = Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 7 ---
D. Quarterly |
EK. Semi-annualy
Solution: (B) Fortnightly
j
Bullion Depository Receipt-Procedural framework:
o Bullion depository shall, on a fortnightly basis, check the physical bars
deposited in the vault with the details provided during the creation of BDRs
by the vault manager.
Qi6. What is the timeline for creation of Bullion Depository Receipts since the
conformation of allocation of bars towards trading by the initial beneficial owner
of the bars to the Bullion Depository?
A. lhr
B. 2 hrs }
Cc. 6 hrs
D. 12 hrs
E. 24 hrs
Solution: 2 hrs :LEPPEEEP ER ert
o The time-lines for creation of Bullion Depository Receipts shall be within two
hours of confirmation of allocation ‘of bars towards trading by the initial
beneficial owner of the bars to the Bullion Depository.
Qi7. For how long the audit trail of an extinguished bullion depository receipt
needs to be maintained? ; ; ST EPEERES EGER ;
A. 1 year Peete cess tienes te :
D. 10 years é senarsirerseateri teen
© With respect to the extinguished BDRs, thelaudit'trail shall be maintained by
the Bullion Depository for ten years. Viet
Qid. The application for registration of a vault manager with the Authority shall
be in accordance with Form A of which Schedule?
Bb, 2"
J.
www cybmentors.com| info@eghbmentors.com | 9310558455 -
(@ = Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 8 ---
Sohution: (A) 1% Schedule
REGISTRATION OF VAULT MANAGER
Application for grant of certificate of registration
© The application for registration with the Authority shall be in accordance
with Form A specified in the First Schedule along with the letter of
empanelment with the bullion depository.
Q19. For the registration of vault, the promoters of the Vault Manager must be in
the Vaulting Business for at least how many years?
&. 2
B.3
c5
D. 10
E. 1
Solution: (B) 3 years
© The promoters of the Vault Manager should be persons with a good business
reputation and credibility and must be in the Vaulting business for at least
3 years as on the date of their application.
Q20. What should be the minimum net worth of the applicant for registration of
vault?
A. USD 1 mn
B. USD 3 mn
c. USD 5 mn :
D. USD 7 mn
E. USD 10 mn : Piepet yeasts:
Solution: (D) USD 7 mn Sect
ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT
Net worth setts
© The applicant shall maintain minimum net werth of USD 7 million.
Q21, The Vault manager shall submit the net worth certificate from its statutory
auditors to the Bullion Depository once in every six months, i.e. within
éuys from the end of March and September.
A 7
B. 2)
€. 30
wer cobmentors.com| infoficghmcatoracom | 9310558455
8
c Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 9 ---
MIME oi | SSGB
lati > =
= E. 60
| Solution: (D) 45 days :
: ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT
r Net worth
o The Vault Manager shall submit a net worth certificate from its statutory
auditors to the Bullion Depository once in every six months i.e. within 45
calendar days, from the end of March and September. The net worth
certificate shall not be older than3 months.
Q22. The audited Annual Financial Statements of the Vault Managers need be
submitted to the Bullion Depository within how many months from the end of the
St financial year?
Rik RAUBP ; Wil (
aN i ' c. 4
a i “Sohation: (D) 6 months
ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT
Net worth
The Annual Financial Statements of the Vault Manager should be audited and
submitted to the Bullion Depository within six months from the end of Financial
Year.
Q23. The unaudited Quarterly financial statements needs to be submitted to the
Bullion Depository within how many days from the end of respective quarter?
A. 7
B. 15
Cc. 30
D. 45
E. 60
Solution: (D) 45 days :
4 ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT
Net worth eae,
© The Annual Financial Statements of the Vault Manager should be audited
ment rer rte ORR macnae sie months from the ond of
| www.cgbmentors,com| info@egbmeators.com | 9310558455 9 ]
fe Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 10 ---
1 fs
Fimancial Year. Further, Vault Manager shall also submit its umaudited
quarterly financial statements for all the quarters of a financial years to
the Bullion Depository, within 45 calendar days from the end of the respective
quarter.
Q24. What is the security deposit that the vault manager needs to furnish to the
bullion depository?
A. USD 10,000 arabe :
B. USD 25,000 a
C. USD 50,000. Pena a
D. USD 75,000)?
E. USD 100,000 A,
Solution: (D) USD 75,000
ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT
-o The “Vault Manager shall be) required to. furnish a refundable security
B ‘deposit of USD 75000 With the bullion depository prior to making
application totheAuthority,
Q25. At least what portion of the bnyadeal dulticn etorea in the vaults needs to be =
insured ? ai i
C. 80% aA A A
D. 90% Bi Ht i | RVI
E. 100% POR RU aT ANN i i
Solution: (E) 100% SUTRA RET MRT AINSI Ee
ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT
o The Vault Manager shall at) all titles’ ensure to fully cover under
insurance, the value of physical bu iil stored in its vaults.
; IE peti i t .
Q26. How often the Vault Manager lied dl provide information regarding the
insurance coverage of the physical bul Ho ‘hsihrake Bullion Depository?
i Wi
A. Weekly | i i Hal
. UOT VUPEE LIRR EA
Be i D: Sac A vonsinlahe hE REMOSLL Aelia sso dpiieilanicar arse mecepten nner sicieinCtARA ORME
Se “www.cgbmentors.com| info@egbmentors.com | 9310558455 10
fe 3 Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 11 ---
FE. Annually
Sohation: (C) Quarterly
ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT
Insurance
o Vault Manager shall provide information regarding the insurance coverage
of the physical bullion to the Bullion Depository quarterly.
Q27. If the Vault is a leased property, the vault manager should hold a direct lease
for how many years?
A. 1
B. 3
cS ;
D. 7
E. 10
Solution: (B) 3 years
ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT —s i
Infrastructure Requirements
© In case the vault is a leased property, the Vault Manager should hold a :
direct lease for at least 3 years,
Q28. Within how many days the applicant for registration of Vault will have to
deposit the security deposit from the day of communication of the same by the
B. 14 : esis
ELIGIEILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT
Grant of certificate of registration
« On being Satisfied that the applicant meets the eligibility requirements. the
Authority May issue a written or electronic communication to the applicant
aLYang it to submit the security deposit within twenty-one workin is days.
www.cpbmentors,com | infoZegbmentors.com | 9310558455
ll
CE Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 12 ---
wee ere creer oll Gt &
@ Telegram Channel aes
(formerly CrackGradeB
egula'
Q29. On the receipt of security deposit for the registration of vault, the authority |
shall issue a certificate of registration to applicant in which form of the first —
schedule? i
ALA *
B.B
C..¢ 4,
D.D ' :
Solution: (B) Form B : j
ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF VAULT
Grant of certificate of registration ~ te 4e 5
o On: receipt of ‘the: security deposit-as: aforesaid, the Authority shall issue a
certificate of registration to ‘the applicant'in Form B of First Schedule.
Q30. Every vault manager needs ‘toupreserve all the records in electronic retrieval
= form for a minimum period of how, many years? ©
2 = -~ j- VS. = Uh - “SSE Fez
ease S + claehap ete Ses, 2?
SseBetesisesiiess his S*iese hte Ee Coe Se SE?
Sar eee Decals teeee eis Sees ESS SOS SOE Bee F
E. 20 Jebs teeta’, 4 Re SAG eh.
Solution: (E) 20:years $00 sy Sosy Soy Ss! .
Maintenance of records and its reconciliation with Bullion depository
o Every Vault Manager shall preserve the records in electronic retrieval
form for a minimum period of 20 years.
Q31. The code of conduct that the Vault Managers shall adhere to are in which
schedule? S$ FS ee TS, Ste fee Bes
A. 1% Rie cae e ees 2
B. 2rd Se op
D. 4 et eitere ees
Solution: (C) 34 Schedule ' Rate ee AS
Code of conduct a wks
¥ Every Vault Manager shall abide by the Code of Conduct as set out in the
eae Third Schedule. A S
igen fae Percept nmnerinen nein tomes ay streamate EE ae oe
R www.cgbmentors,com| info@egbmentora,com, | 9310558455 -
ae Mah he KA ade ae So ’ x AA ee =
(@ = Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 13 ---
Q32. Any change in key managerial positions needs to be disclosed by the vault
manager to the Authority with how many days of such change?
A. 7
B. 14
c.15 i
D. 30
E. 45
Solution: (C) 15 days ‘
Disclosure of Information
o A Vault Manager shall make a written disclosure to the Authority of any of
the following events, namely:
* any change in the key managerial persons, within fifteen days of such
change; ;
Q33. Any change in ownership of more than what % needs to be disclosed by the
vault manager to the Authority within 15 days of any such change?
A. 10 at eianey
B.15 SOP aah ee ea
C-30 RELATE RSE A RGA
D. 50 eee Rie ten
Solution: (A) 10% PERERA EL SCE
Disclosure of Information iA PERE a4
© A Vault Manager shall make a written disclosure to the Authority of any of
the following events, namely:
* any change in the lcey managerial persons, within fifteen days of such
change;
* any change in the ownership of more than 10%, within fifteen days of
such change; —
Q34. Any change in the net worth needs to be disclosed by the vault manager to
the Authority on what basis? , 3 ee
A. Weekly S bins
B. Monthly :
C, Quarterly \ t
D. Fortnightly
E. Annually ehh
RSE Ne AEN NE A SER ON I A ALTA TE PP A RRM BBE LAREN: EIRENE TEES AEE NTN
www.cybmentors.com| info@cgbmentors.com | 9310558455
13
le 3 Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 14 ---
{formerly Craci
Solution: (C) Quarterly
Disclosure of Information
o A Vault Manager shall make a written disclosure to the Authority of any of
the following events, namely:
= any change in the key managerial persons, within fifteen days of such
change;
«= any change in the ownership of more than 10%, within fifteen days of
such change;
* any change in the net worth, on a quarterly basis;
Q35. What is the minimum days of notice that needs to be given by the Authority
to the Vault manager before ordering an inspection? eee: :
A 1
B. 2
C8
D.5 :
Solution: (C) 3 days LCT PAR ERC SEAL
Notice before inspection Paccachsrais biter ists tauaetteas
© Before ordering an inspection, the Authority ‘shall give not less than 3 days
notice to the Vault Manager. sere abbyy PUL cee Bae
Q36. The inspecting officer on completion of ‘inspection needs to submit an |
inspection report to the Authority within how many days? we -
B. 15 : CEhaes seibevetdavens
Submission of Report aa suaiiaiee
The inspecting officer shall, within fifteen days on completion of the inspection
submit an inspection report to the Authority. i
Q37. What is the fees that every vault manager has to pay along with application
for registration?
A. USD 50
www.cpbmentors.com| infodiepbmentors.com | 9310558455 14
(@ = Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 15 ---
B. USD 100
Cc. USD 500
D. USD 1000
E. USD 2000
Solution: (C) USD 500
Fees for Vault Manager Registration
o Every Vault Manager shall pay a fee of USD 500 along with application for
registration.
Q38. What is the registration fee for grant of certificate by the authority?
A. USD 100
B. USD 500
Cc. USD 1000
D. USD 2500
E. USD 5000 ' 4
Solution: (£E) USD 5000 ; :
Fees for Vault Manager Registration
Every Vault Manager shall pay a sum of USD 5000 as registration fee at the time of
the grant of certificate by the Authority... |. :
Q39. Within how many days from the’ date ‘of receipt of intimation from the
authority the registration fees. ‘need: to. ‘paid. by the vault manager to the
authority? VerERUEA PERS RAGS ona
B. 14 : Vea ee thar tse
E. 30 t EAP RUE MARR ARS SEARLS :
Solution: (C) 15 days si)
Fees for Vault Manager Registration |
o Every Vault Manager. shall pay a sum of USD 5000 as registration fee at the
time of the grant of certificate by the Authority (It shall be paid within 15 days
from the date of receipt of intimation from the Authority)
ener RP REA
www.cgbmentors.com | info@cgbmentors,com | 93105538455 =
[@ = Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 16 ---
RS Ss ewe
BYS {formerly Crac:

Q40. If an RE fnils to pay the ontstanding dues or fees, in part or full, to the
Authority within the specified time, then such dues or fees shall increase by a
simple interest of .......... per month.

A. 7.5%

B. 0.10% j

Cc. 0.75%

D. 1.2%

E. 13%
Solution: (C) 0.75%
Fees for Vault Manager Registration
i. If an RE fails to pay the outstanding dues or fees, in part or full, to the Authority within:
the specified time, then such dues or fees shall increase by a simple interest of 0.75%
per month.
ii. If an RE fails to submit the periodic returns to the Authority within the specified
deadline, then a late fee of $100 per month shall be paid by the RE for each such instance.
of default.
BULLION DEFINITIONS
Q41. What is the minimum reserve requirement that RBI needs to maintain as per
the Reserve Requirement System? =

A. Rs. 100er Bese iaias janine

C. Rs. 200cr fSeESeeRLE RA tEESRenUSESES iessiatte
Solution: (C) Rs. 200cr team numa atari etic
The RE) is required by the Reserve Requirement System to retain a minimum reserve of
2n amount of about Rs 200 crore in gold coins, gold ‘bullion with the remainder in foreign
042. What portion of the total reserve maintained by RBI needs to be in form of
gold or gold bullion?

A. Ts.100er

B. Re.1iSer

C. Rs.125cr

D, Bs.137cr

www .cobmentors.com| infocgbmentors,com | 9310558455
16
le3 Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 17 ---
E. Rs.150er 1
Solution: (B) Rs.115cr
The RBI is required by the Reserve Requirement System to retain a mininrum reserve of
an amount of about Rs 200 crore in gold coins, gold bullion with the remainder in foreign
currencies. From the amount of Rs 200 crores, a portion of Rs 115 crore should remain
in the forms of gold coins or in means of gold bullion, with the remainder in foreign
currency.
Q43. Which of the following functions are performed by the Bullion Clearing
Member? ;
1. Clearing
2. Settlement
3. Risk Management
A. land 2
B. 2 and 3
Cc. land 3 3
E. All of the above ippheseesseepcs cee
Solution: (E) All of the above serait sits bes ect
e “Bullion clearing member”. means a person having clearing rights in any
recognised bullion clearing corporation and as such registered by the Authority.
© Clearing Member performs following functions: -~- -
* Clearing - Computing obligations of all his trading members by
determining positions to settle. Sips itmerscsrore
« Settlement - Performing actual settlement. ©. =
« Risk Management - Setting position limits based on upfront deposits
/ margins for each trading member and monitoring positions on a
continuous basis. melts iaisiiititiagiie
Q44. Which of the following is India’s first International Bullion Exchange?
A. India INK ;
B. MCX
Cc. NEBX
D. NSE
E, None of the ahove
Solution: (Cj IBX
www.cgbmentors.com| info@icghmentors.com | 9310558455
17
Ge Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 18 ---
ot acon au Cae: ‘ WE Mertors
(formerly Crac é
* “Bullion exchange” means a Financial Institution, established recognised for the
Purpose of assisting, regulating and controlling bullion contracts in an
International Financial Services Centre,
o IIBX (India International Bullion Exchange) is India’s first International
Bullion Exchange set up at the GIFT City, Gandhinagar. :
Q45. How many Market Institutional Investors promote IIBX? ere
¢ “Bullion exchange” means a Piranicial Institution, established recognised for the
purpose. of assisting, «regulating ‘and') controlling bullion contracts in an
International Financial Services Centre.) 0)" =
__ 9 TIBX (India International Bullion Exchange) is India’s first International 3
Bullion Exchange set up at the GIFT City, Gandhinagar. 5 |
o India International Bullion’ Exchange IFSC Ltd (IIBX) is promoted by 5
Market ‘Institutional Investor's i.e., CDSL, India INX, NSDL, NSE and
Q46. Which of the following eliminated the risk of holding physical assets?
B. Depository BeStEstesi ; eth eetetieteaen
Cc. Clearing Corporation sPibsitepitectscpstacagsregzagi peeved:
Solution: (B) Depository Hi 3 get 3
Role of Depository: Depositories are financial organisations that allow consumers and
businesses to deposit securities for safekeeping,
o They eliminate the risk of holding physical assets to the owner.
ti i!
Q47. How often does the vault manager need to submit a net worth certificate from
statutory auditors to the bullion depository?
A. Monthly
B. Quarterly i Bap rte ;
sa emtatitiialaiaibienencaiie ash aeiacere nero wage hi) remit at Bei dia gehoae tia iyhibiine dad hp he lal emeenemmmeamaaai steam tale :
~ } www.egbmentors,com| info@eghmentors.com | 9310558455 18 “ai
(@ = Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 19 ---
C. Semi-annually
D. Annually
E. Biennial
Solution: (C) Semi-annually 5
: ‘ i auditors to the
The Vault Manager shall submit a net worth certificate from its statutory
Bullion Depository once every 6 months,
Tsx
Q48. Who is the current chairman of IIBX>?
A. Ashok Kumar Gautam
B. Jugal Kishore Mohapatra
C. Akhok Mehta
D. Injeti Srinivas
E. BVR Subramanyam
Solution: (B) Jugal Kishore Mohapatra
Current Chairman of IBN is Mr. Jugal Kishore Mohapatra
49. Who is the current MD&CEO of HBX?
A. Sudarshan Das ;
B. Jugal Kishore Mohapatra ;
C. Nandan Nilekani zy
D. Amitabh Kant EES
E. Ashok Kumar Gautam ;
Sohution: (E) Ashok Kumar Gautam Shy ‘
Mr Ashok Kumar Gautam is MD & CEO of (BX
O50. To te a qualified jeweller it
annus! turnover in anok 8 dhe Saale pes at least what Ppereentage of average
metale? 7 ough dealing in Seeds under precious
B. 50
C. 75
D. ag
E. 96
Solution: IE) 902
www .cgbmento; i Relay a > ue ee
=oom | ‘nfoGerbmentors,con, | 9310558455 ence
ig
B Vouture Channet
C® Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 20 ---
@ Telegram Channel Ee Vento
(formerly CrackGradeB
tegulati
Qualified Jewellers
The entity must have filed due GST returns up to the preceding month prior to making
an application to the BX. Further, a certificate should be submitted by the entity, duly
attested by a practicing-chartered accountant or a practicing cost accountant or a
practicing company secretary, stating that 90% of the average annual turnover in the
last 3 financial years are through dealing in goods under precious metals.
Q51. What shall be the minimum net worth of a qualified jeweller as per its latest
audited financial statement?
A. Rs.Scr
B. Rs.10cr
C. Rs.20cr
D. Rs.25cr
E. Rs.SOcr |
Solution: (D) Rs.2Ser 3
Qualified Jewellers
The entity shall have a minimum net worth of 25 crore as per its latest audited financial
statement. 7
Q52. All the contracts listed, traded and settled on IIBX are in which currency?
A. INR
B. USD = hes Tee, Se
Cc. Any foreign currency except INR j
D. Euro 5:
E. Pound i
Solution: (B) USD
¢ All contracts are listed, traded & settled on IIBX are in US Dollars.
O52. What is the margin needed for trading on IIBX for T+0 contract?
A. 16%
Bg. 20%
Cc, 50%
D. 75%
E. 100%
Solution: (E) 100%
www.ogbmentors.com| info@cgbmentors.com | 9310558455 2D
eG Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 21 ---
* Margins needed for Trading on IBX: All members participants have to ensure
100% Early pay-in before transacting on IIBX for T+0 contract

o Buyers needs to have the entire order value funded as pay-in margin.

o Seller needs to have the equivalent bullion order quantity as BDR pay-in
margin.

e Risk Management Controls in IIBX: Currently in IBX for T+0 contracts, 100% |
early pay in of funds is mandatory prior to placing a buy order and 100% early pay
in of securities (BDR) is mandatory prior to placing a sell order on the exchange,
which ensures NIL settlement risk involved while transacting through IIBX.

Q54. What is the minimum trading unit for Gold 995 in IIBK?

A. lkg

B. 10kg

Cc. 20kg

D. 25kg ,

E. 100kg 24994453

Solution: (A) kg , cE 4 4 eee ‘. a 43

* Products in IIBX: (Spot-contracts).

o Gold 995: 995 purity is the indicator of purity. These Gold bars should be
serially numbéred: Gold:bars ‘supplied: by LBMA approved suppliers or other
suppliers as'may beiapproved. by BX:

* Minimum Trading unit is'l’Ke-and Maximum Order size is 100 Kg.

= Contract néeds:to'settled in T+0 days, Margin requirement is 100%.

* Delivery is compulsory in BDR form in the Demat account with the

depository. ESR EES WY
Q55. What is the maximum order size for trading Gold Mini 999 in IIBX?

A. 10 kg : tee 3

B. 20kg ts

Cc. 25kg 4 paket

D. 50kg 3 notes REESE ES

E. 100kg phi hseetabetenbeees

Solution: (Aj 100 kg RiEee PEREhes ees 3
Gold Mini 999: 999 purity. These Gold bars should che serially numbered Gold bars
supplied by LBMA approved suppliers or other suppliers as may be approved by IIBX.

« Minimum Trading unit is 100 grams and Maximum order size can be

100 Kg.

* Contract needs to settled in T+0 days, Margin requirement is 100%.
LT I PE ATOR GO TR RNG NE AE MODAL EMT OABUR BENG SD OP AE Ry LAE EE ART Te ST ET TTS,
www .cgbmentors,com| info@egbmentors,com | 9310558455 -

fe Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 22 ---
@ Tetocram Channel ie Mentors
(formerly CrackGradeB;
lati
* Delivery is compulsory in BDR form in the Demat account with the
depository.
Q56. In how many days is the contract settled for trading in UAED GOLD 995 in
Bx?
A. T+0
B. T+1
C.-T?
D. T+3
E. T+4
Solution: (A) T+0
UAEGD GOLD 995: 995 Purity. These Gold bars should be serially numbered Gold bars
supplied by UAE Good Delivery (UAEGD)- approved suppliers or other suppliers as may
be approved by IIBX. Pe
* Minimum Trading unit is-1-Kg and Maximum order size can be 100 Kg
* Contract needs to settled'in T+O days, Margin requirement is 100%.
* Delivery is compulsory in, BDR form in the Demat account with the
depository. 124 44 44 4,34
Q57. What is the required net worth of applicant seeking recognition as a bullion
exchange or bullion clearing corporation according to IFSCA (Bullion Exchange)
Regulations, 2025?
A. USD 10 mn -
B. USD 20 mn :
Cc. USD 30 mn
D. USD 40 mn
E. USD 50 mn tir
Solution: (A) USD 10 mn ‘
According to IFSCA (Bullion Exchange) Regulations, 2025, the applicant seeking
recognition as a Bullion Exchange or Bullion Clearing Corporation, as the case may be,
shall have a net worth of USD 10 million.
Q58. Who is the current chairman of IIDI (India International Depository IFSC
Limited)?
| www.cgbmentors.com| infoficpbmentors.com | 9310558455 22
le3 Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 23 ---
| Cm sss,
Fee Chann Boor
(formerly CrackGraden
A. Jugal Kishore
B. Kushal Sampat
C. Satyananda Mishra
D. Sudarshan Sen
E. Injeti Srinivas
Solution: (C) Satyananda Mishra
* Depository of IBX is IEDI (India International Depository IFSC Lim. ited):
° Bullion Depositories perform the function of storage and safeguarding
of bullion through a vault manager.
° IIDI is a foreign depository and caters to a global audience of investors.
© IDI operates under the regulatory oversight of International Financial
Services Centres Authority (IFSCA)
QS8. Who is the current MD and CEO of IIDI (India International Depository IFSC
Limited)?
A. Krishna Gangopadhyay
B. Ashok Kumar Gautam
C. Satyananda Mishra
D. Upendra Kumar Sinha
Solution: (Aj Krishna Gangopadhyay
* Depository of IBX is IIDI (India International Depository IFSC Limited): .
© Bullion Depositories perform the function of storage and safeguarding
of bullion through a vault manager,
> IDI is a foreign depository and caters toa global audience of investors.
- ID] operates under the regulatory oversight of International Financial
Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) ;
- Mr. Satyananda Mishra is current Chairman and Mr Kaushal Sampat is
Managing Director & CEO.
<a Ais
CE Scanned with OKEN Scanner
