      INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRES AUTHORITY
                               (Framework for FinTech Entity in the IFSCs)

                                                                                                                 Annexure -III

      Application Form for IFSCA FinTech Regulatory / Innovation Sandbox

                                   1. Applicant’s Information

Sr. No.  Description                                         Response
1.1
         Name of the Applicant, complete address of the
1.2
1.3      registered office and principal place of business

1.4      of the applicant, if any
1.5
1.6      Legal form of the applicant

         Date of Incorporation and date of

         commencement of business of the applicant

         Country(ies) in which the Applicant operates

         Shareholding pattern of the applicant

         Financial Standing of the applicant, including

         any funding raised and avenues for funding

1.7      Name, address and profile of Directors/Chief
1.8      Executives/Key Manager Personnel
1.9      Corporate identification number or any
         document of similar nature and Registration no.
1.10     (if registered with a regulator)
         Details of the Authorized Representative:

             a) Name
              b) Designation
             c) Contact No
              d) Email id
         Details on following, if any

                   a) Affiliation to prominent societies
                   b) Accreditations
                   c) Significant achievements

1.11     Does the applicant have a presence in India/
         IFSC? If yes then please provide details

1.12     Is the applicant business already active in IFSC
         or overseas? If yes then please provide details.

1.13     Legal and regulatory status of the applicant
         (registration, licensing, authorization, approval,
         recognition etc.) with regulators in India or
         overseas

                                                                       1
1.14     Current orders or proceedings pending against
         the applicant in India/IFSC and abroad (if any)

         2. Details of the Proposed Solution to be tested in Sandbox

Sr. No.  Description                                        Response
2.1

         Details of the proposed FinTech solution,
         including :

          i. Objective of the proposed FinTech
                 solution and the problem statement to be
                 addressed.

         ii. Details how the solution constitutes a
                 significantly different offering in the
                 market place (genuineness of
                 innovation)

         iii. Benefits of the proposed financial
                 service/product, and how these are
                 enabled by the technology innovation

         iv. Key benefits to the users and markets
         v. Awareness and Assessment of a similar

                 offering prevalent in other jurisdictions

2.2      Business model and Use Cases.

         For each use case, provide an end-to-end
         illustration on how the proposed FinTech
         solution will be made available, including
         where applicable:

           i. The interactions and money flows
                  between the applicant, the
                  applicant’s target customers and the
                  applicant’s business partners (if any).

          ii. The entity that will be holding the
                  applicant’s customers’ monies.

         iii. The remuneration structure of the
                  applicant and the applicant’s
                  business partners (if any).

         iv. Asset deployment and sources of
                  revenue

          v. Target users
         vi. Compliance obligations
         vii. Time period for testing

                                                                      2
2.3      Summary of the Technical Solution including

         but not limited to:

          i. Technical architecture
         ii. Usage of Artificial Intelligence and

                 Machine Learning, if any
         iii. Cyber resilience: VAPT results, if any
         iv. Certification from Common Criteria

                 Recognition Arrangement (CCRA), if
                 any
         v. Business Continuity Plan, if any
         vi. Relevant certifications, if any

         3. Sandbox Readiness: Details of the proposed Sandbox Design

Sr. No.  Description                                         Response
3.1
         Illustrate the aspect of the FinTech solution that

         will be tested, including specific testing of

         technological innovation in the proposed

         solution.

3.2      The test criteria and expected outcomes

3.3      Describe the experiments and use case that will

         be tested in the sandbox

3.4      Define success for a test and the Key

         Performance Indicators that would be used to

         monitor and assess the progress of the

         experiment.

3.5      Readiness of the prototype and development

         timeline, including an estimate on the readiness

         to provide an end-to-end demonstration of the

         proposed FinTech solution

         (Tentative start and end date of sandbox
         testing)

3.6      Details of users including but not limited to:

          i. Number of participating customers
         ii. Profile of customers (retail, institutional,

                 etc.)
         iii. Process for enrollment and acquisition of

                 customers
         iv. Requirement of KYC
         v. User awareness required/conducted

                                                                       3
          vi. Whether consent required /has consent
                   been obtained

         vii. Arrangements to limit loss if applicable
                   e.g. Margin, stop loss thresholds etc.

         viii. User compensation if any
           ix. Value at risk per user
           x. Transaction thresholds per user

3.7      Describe the Controls to be put in place to

         manage risk and failure in the sandbox

         including money laundering, terrorism

         financing, technology risk etc

Sr. No.                             4. Deployment post-testing  Response
4.1      Description
         Describe how the regulatory requirements will
         be met post successful sandbox testing

4.2      Provide a deployment strategy post successful

         sandbox testing including the timelines for full

         scale deployment

4.3      Provide a clear strategy to monitor the

         outcomes in the live scenario

4.4      Provide exit and transition strategy if the

         deployed solution turns unviable and the tests

         are unsuccessful

5. Details of the applicable IFSCA legal/regulatory requirements and the relaxation

         sought to deliver the proposed FinTech solution

Sr. No. Description                                             Response

5.1      State all the legal and regulatory requirements

         (rules, regulations, guidelines, circulars etc)

         applicable on the applicant

5.2      State the specific legal and regulatory

         requirements that the applicant is seeking

         IFSCA to relax for the duration of the

         sandbox, and provide justifications

5.3      Include a legal opinion, if available, from a

         qualified legal practitioner on the relevant laws

         administered by IFSCA to the facts of the case

5.4      Describe how the applicant intends to meet the

         all legal and regulatory requirements before

         exiting the sandbox

                                                                                     4
6. Declaration to be submitted by the applicant in the following format on its letter
head and the same shall be duly signed by an Authorized signatory, or compliance
officer in the case of a company or startup.

We hereby solemnly declare and agree that:

(1) the information submitted in the application, including the attachment sheets, is
     complete and true and the supporting documents enclosed therewith are
     authentic and true copy of the original.

(2) we shall notify the International Financial Services Centres Authority
     immediately of any material change in the information provided in the
     application.

(3) as a condition of Authorization, we shall abide by regulations, guidelines and such
     operational instructions/directives as may be issued by the International
     Financial Services Centres Authority from time to time.

                                                                   For and on behalf of M/s

                                            AUTHORISED SIGNATORY
                                                                                    with seal

Date:
Place:

7. The application complete in all aspects shall be submitted at fe-
sandbox@ifsca.gov.in, through electronic mail.

        *******

                                                                                       5
                   Division of FinTech

                   Supporting Documents - Checklist

Sr.No      Checklist Item (all documents to be signed and stamped by Authorised Representative)
   1   Incorporation and Commencement of Business documents:
       For Indian Entity:
        in case of a Company – Certificate of Incorporation and Commencement of Business
        in case of Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)/ Partnership firm - Certificate of Registration

        For Foreign Entity:
          Incorporation and Commencement of Business documents as applicable
2 Constitutional Documents:
        For Indian Entity:
          in case of a Company - Memorandum of Association and Article of Association
          in case of Limited liability partnership (LLP)/ Partnership - LLP Agreement/ Partnership

           Agreement

        For Foreign Entity:
         Relevant constitutional documents as applicable
3 Copy of the Resolution passed by the Applicant authorizing its Director(s)/Designated
        Partner(s)/ Authorized Person(s) as applicable, for enabling the Applicant to make an
        application to IFSCA (under Sandbox/Authorisation), and thereby executing, or providing
        necessary documents on behalf of the Entity to IFSCA, from time to time
4 Application form and all the relevant Annexures being submitted to be Signed and stamped (i.e.
        Company Rubber stamp), by the person Authorised as per Board Resolution mentioned in point
        no 3. above
5 Self-Attested Proof of Identity and Proof of Address (KYC) of Founder/ Directors (in executive
        role) and Authorised Signatory (mentioned in the Application form)

6 Following details of the Application Fees paid by the Applicant:

       Date of Amount Details of SWIFT MT 103 or

       remittance  UTR of the transaction)

       Application fees:
        for Authorisation for all the Applicants (Indian / Foreign): USD 500
        for Limited Use Authorisation for Foreign Applicants: USD 100

       For payment of fees, request you to kindly click here to refer IFSCA Circular on fees as amended.

7 (i) Latest Shareholding pattern in the below-mentioned format for the :
Sr.No  Checklist Item (all documents to be signed and stamped by Authorised Representative)
       a. applicant
       b. holding/subsidiary/ associate Company, if applicable

       Instrument      Name of        Nationality for          Amount   Latest %
                                      Individual              Invested  Holding
       Equity Shares   the            shareholders/           (and      (as
       Preference                     Country           of Currenc      on_____)
       /Converitibles  Sharehold      Registration     for y)
                                      Institutional
                       er         or  Investors

                       Investor

                       -

       Others          -

       TOTAL

       (i) KYC documents of person(s) holding more than 10% or more shares in the Applicant

               Company.

       (ii) If any Partnership /Companies/Trust/Entity holds more than 10% or more shares in

               the Applicant Company, their shareholding break-up in the above format as specified

               in point no 7(i); and

       (iii) KYC proofs for such aforesaid entities and the UBO:

               In case of Company Documents as mentioned in point no 1 and 2

                                       above and KYC documents of executive

                                       directors

               In case of LLP          Documents as mentioned in point no 1 and 2

                                       above and KYC documents of designated

                                       partners

               In case of Trust        Pan, Registration and Trust Deed. KY C of

                                       trustees, settlors etc.

8 Technical documents (As Applicable):

       i.      Technical architecture including deployment diagram

       ii. Technology stack for Front-end, Back-end, Middleware and database

       iii. Usage of Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning or Decentralized Ledger Technology /

               Blockchain if any

       iv. Details of any Intellectual Property Rights (whether applied/granted) with relevant

               documents.

       v. Security Assessmentreport/VAPT Auditreportand certificate bycert-in empaneled auditor.

       vi. Relevant ISO certificates.

       vii. Technology readiness level of the product being proposed

9 Additional Documents (As Applicable) :
           i. Pitch deck/Concept Note of the activities that are proposed for Authorization/ Sandbox,
                  technicalities, road map, an overall business model considering the context of GIFT IFSC,
                  employment planned in GIF T-IFSC, etc.
           ii. Audited Financials for the last 3 FY’s
          iii. In case of Authorization – additional details about each of the activities proposed (like, the
                  revenue generated, and existing geographies of the activities, top customers, targeted
                  customers post Authorization from GIFT – IFSC and geographies planned, etc)
Sr.No      Checklist Item (all documents to be signed and stamped by Authorised Representative)
  10    iv. In case of Limited Use Authorization – MoUs/Agreements with Financial Institutions as
  11
                 applicable for the sandbox activity.
  12     v. Licenses/Authorizations/Approvals obtained from Regulator(s) in Domestic and/or Foreign Jurisdiction(s)

        vi. Details about Pilot(s) done in Domestic and/or Foreign Jurisdiction(s)
       Certificate of Good Standing (as may be applicable for Foreign Entities)
       Declaration on the letterhead signed by Authorised Signatory, stating that no regulatory, statutory,
       or any kind of action, penalty, fine etc., has been taken/imposed against the Company, its Related
       Entities, Group, and Interlinked Companies or any of its P romoter(s), Director(s)/ Designated
       P artner(s), Key Managerial Person(s), Authorised Person(s) by any of the law enforcement/ regulatory
       agencies, Regulatory Body, Ministry, Authority, etc. in any J urisdiction, or any of them are/ were
       undergoing/ involved in any investigation/ disciplinary action/ legal or regulatory violations/ criminal
       case
       Fit and proper Declaration and fit and proper criteria as enclosed (on the letterhead of the
       Applicant)
                                        FIT AND PROPER DECLARATION

                                       (on letterhead of the Applicant Entity)

We, _________(name of Entity), represented by __________________(name of Authorised
persons as per Board resolution) hereby declare that we, our directors/ partners/ designated
partners, principal officer, key managerial and our controlling shareholders are and shall be
and always meet the “fit and proper persons” criteria.

We further declare that:

a. We have a record of fairness and integrity, including but not limited to:
          i.Financial integrity, good reputation, character and honesty;
          ii. absence of convictions and restraint orders;
          iii. competence, including financial solvency

b. None of us have incurred any of the following disqualification:
          i. been convicted by a court for any offence involving moral turpitude or any economic
          offence;
          ii. a recovery proceeding has been initiated against the person by a financial regulatory
          authority and is pending;
          iii. an order for winding up has been passed against such person for malfeasance;
          iv. has been declared insolvent and not discharged;
          v. an order, restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person from accessing or
          dealing in financial products or financial services has been passed by a competent
          authority, and a period of three years from the date of the expiry of the period
          specified in the order has not elapsed;
          vi. any other order against the person, has been passed by any regulatory authority,
          and a period of three years from the date of the order has not elapsed;
          vii. the person has been found to be of unsound mind by a court of competent
          jurisdiction and the finding is in force;
          viii. the person is financially not sound or has been categorized as a willful defaulter;
          ix. the person has been declared a fugitive economic offender; or
          x. the person suffers from any other disqualification as may be specified by the
          Authority.

For____________(name of Company)

Sd/- and stamp

Name and Designation of Authorised Representative:
Place:
Date:
                                                      Fit and Proper Criteria
                                            (on leerhead of the Applicant Enty)
                          For, all the quesons below, provide details for the past 8 years.

We, _________(name of Enty), represented by __________________(name of Authorised person
as per Board resoluon) hereby declare the following for our funconaries*:

    Promoters
    Founders
    Directors/Partners/Designated Partners
    Key Managerial Personnel
    Principal Officers
    Persons /Shareholders having 10% and above share/voting rights/ distributable

        dividend
    Trustees
    Authorised Representatives
    Any other person, as maybe specified.

Sr. No. Particulars                                        Comments/Remarks

0  Whether any of the functionaries or any of the

   entities associated with9 the functionary have

   been refused a Registration/ Authorization/

   License by the IFSCA or any other regulatory

   authority or their Registration/ Authorization/

   License has been suspended at any time prior to

   this application.

   (If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a
   declaration to that effect).

   9for this Section, a person is said to be ‘associated
   with’ an entity if he/she is/ was a functionary of the
   entity

1  Whether the functionaries or any relative of the

   functionaries of the companies/ entities in which

   the applicant is/ was associated with9, are in

   default or have defaulted in the past in respect of

   credit facilities obtained from any entity or bank?

   (If yes, please furnish information about the
   default and the name of the lending institution.
2  Whether any of the functionaries have been

   disqualified to act as promoter/ director/ key

   managerial personnel under any law in any

   jurisdiction where the applicant entity or the

   group companies of the applicant entity are

   operating?

   If yes, please furnish details.

3  Name/s of the companies, firms, partnership

   firms, in which any of the functionaries hold

   substantial interest.

4  Whether any of the functionaries are/ were

   undergoing/ involved in any investigation/

   disciplinary action/ legal or regulatory violations/

   criminal case by any law enforcement/ regulatory

   agencies?

   If yes, please furnish details.

5  Whether any order has been passed by any

   bankruptcy/ resolution authority against any

   company/ entity with which any of the

   functionaries are/ were associated9?

   If yes, please furnish details.

6  Whether any of the functionaries have been

   convicted by a court for any offence involving

   moral turpitude or any economic offence or any

   offence against securities laws?

   If yes, please furnish details.

7  Whether a recovery proceeding has been initiated

   against any of the functionaries by a financial

   regulatory authority and is pending?

   If yes, please furnish details.
8   Whether an order for winding up has been passed

    against any of the functionaries for malfeasance?

    If yes, please furnish details.

9   Whether an order restraining, prohibiting or

    debarring any of the functionaries from accessing

    or dealing in financial products or financial

    services, has been passed by any regulatory

    authority/ courts, and a period of five years from

    the date of the expiry of the period specified in the

    order has not elapsed?

    If yes, please furnish details.

10  Whether any other order against any of the

    functionaries, which has a bearing on the

    securities market, has been passed by any

    regulatory authority, and a period of five years

    from the date of the order has not elapsed?

    If yes, please furnish details.

11  Whether any of the functionaries

    i) have been declared insolvent and not

    discharged?

    If yes, please furnish details.

    ii) have been found to be of unsound mind by a
    court of competent jurisdiction and the finding is in
    force?

    If yes, please furnish details.

    iii) are financially not sound or have been
    categorized as a wilful defaulter?

    If yes, please furnish details.
               iv) have been declared a fugitive economic
               offender?

               If yes, please furnish details.

 I/We declare that all the functionaries have a record of fairness and integrity, including but
 not limited to financial integrity, good reputation, character and honesty.

 I/We undertake to bring to the notice of IFSCA within one week, if any of the above
 actions is initiated against any of the functionaries in future.

*The term ‘functionaries’ includes but are not limited to the officials of the applicant as
mentioned below].

      Promoters
      Founders
      Directors/Partners/Designated Partners
      Key Managerial Personnel
      Principal Officers
      Persons /Shareholders having 10% and above share/voting rights/ distributable

         dividend
      Trustees
      Authorised Representatives
      Any other person, as maybe specified

For____________(name of Company)

Sd/- and stamp

Name and Designation of Authorised Representative:
Place:
Date:
