REGULATORY APPROACH
            TOWARDS

     TOKENIZATION OF
  REAL-WORLD ASSETS

                          Consultation Paper
                              February 2025
              Contents

Introduction ........................................................................................................................................................................ 2

Background 2

Objective  4

Invitation to Comment ............................................................................................................................................... 5

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets ............................................................ 7

Intent of the proposed Regulatory Approach .................................................................................................. 7

Question Set 1: Definition and some key characteristics of Digital Tokens ........................................ 9

Type of asset underlying a digital token ..................................................................................................... 10

Rights represented by digital tokens ........................................................................................................... 14

Manner of recognizing ownership of digital tokens .............................................................................. 16

Question Set 2: Evolving appropriate mechanisms for Issuance, Custody, Trading, Clearing
and Settlement of Digital Tokens ....................................................................................................................... 17

Issuance of Digital Tokens ................................................................................................................................ 18

Custody of Digital Tokens ................................................................................................................................. 20

Trading, Clearing and Settlement of Digital Tokens .............................................................................. 21

Question Set 3: Evolving an appropriate Risk Management Framework for Digital Tokens .... 30

Question Set 4: Providing suitable catalysts for organic growth and development of the Digital
Tokens market 36

Annexure I: Consolidated list of questions ......................................................................................................... 43

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 1 of 55
                               Introduction

Background

The Government of India set up India’s maiden International Financial Services Centre
(IFSC) in GIFT City, Gujarat (GIFT IFSC) with the aim of making India a global leader in
the realm of international financial services. Subsequently, the International Financial
Services Centres Authority Act, 2019 1 was enacted, leading to the creation of the
International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA), the unified regulator for GIFT
IFSC. IFSCA has been entrusted with the development and regulation of financial
products, financial services and financial institutions in the IFSCs in India, cutting across
the realms of banking, capital markets, asset management, insurance and more.

IFSCA is committed to providing a comprehensive and consistent regulatory framework
that is based on global best practices for the holistic development of the financial and
technological ecosystem in GIFT IFSC. In order to fulfil this commitment, IFSCA has
adopted a consultative approach, gathering opinions and feedback from industry
participants, academicians, subject experts and other stakeholders, in an open and
collaborative manner. Such an approach garners greater significance, given the fast-
paced innovation being seen in certain pockets of international finance.

One such emerging idea, with immense importance for the international financial
landscape is tokenization. IFSCA recognizes and acknowledges the transformative
potential of tokenization in the fields of asset ownership, asset management, cross-
border payments and settlement etc. IFSCA wishes to leverage the unique position of
GIFT IFSC and its accompanying advantages for the creation of a thriving digital asset
ecosystem in GIFT IFSC.

1 Act No. 50 of 2019. The Act is available on IFSCA’s website here  Page 2 of 55
Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets
Tokenization is already starting to transform how financial services operate. Banks, asset
managers, lenders, payment providers and even corporate treasurers and finance
departments are tokenizing a broad array of real-world assets, from bank deposits to
securities, commodities to documentation. Some banks have even been building the
blockchain technology stack in-house with an eye to further tokenization initiatives, such
as collateral settlement, multiparty trade finance, interbank cash settlements and more.
Many high-value projects result from collaboration between digital natives offering
innovative tech solutions and established financial institutions equipped with capital,
scalability, an attractive user experience and rigorous risk management.2

Smart contracts and automated processes in different areas could propel estimated
annual global infrastructure operational cost savings of ~$15-20 billion. The need for
shortened settlement cycles – which improve liquidity, enhance market efficiency and
lower systemic risk – and the demand for 24/7 market operations will require a new
infrastructural backbone. Today's financial systems use different technologies and lack
the atomic network connectivity of blockchain networks, thereby creating technology
silos that create friction when processing of transactions. Furthermore, by using
distributed ledger technology for collateral management, financial institutions can free
up substantial capital estimated at more than $100 billion annually.3

Tokenization could also enhance banks’ origination and distribution of trade finance and
make them more capital efficient, and benefits can be passed on to their client companies.
Tokenisation can make the trade finance instruments, or even cash payment instruments
smarter and can bring transparency and traceability that are inherited benefits of the
blockchain technology. Companies engaged in trade tokenization could extend the

2 PwC - Tokenization in financial services: Delivering value and transformation:
https://www.pwc.com/us/en/tech-effect/emerging-tech/tokenization-in-financial-services.html
3 WEF: How tokenization is transforming global finance and investment:
https://www.weforum.org/stories/2024/12/tokenization-blockchain-assets-finance/

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 3 of 55
benefits of supply chain finance across suppliers or cut risks by using tokenized bills of
lading and tokenized deposits.4
IFSCA constituted the Expert Committee on Asset Tokenization5 (the Committee) in
September 2023, with the objective of recommending measures for the development of
a digital asset ecosystem in GIFT IFSC. The Committee, inter-alia, comprised of eminent
experts from the domains of computer science, capital markets, securities law, and
seasoned officers with rich regulatory experience.
The Committee, leveraging the immense knowledge and deep expertise of its members,
carried out detailed deliberations on various aspects of the tokenization space. As part of
its efforts, the Committee has interacted with market participants and gleaned relevant
insights from these interactions. The Committee has also carefully considered the
regulatory developments in other relevant jurisdictions and noted emerging trends in the
tokenization space. The Committee’s experience and valuable observations/ suggestions
have enriched IFSCA and enabled the publishing of this consultation paper.

Objective

The objective of this consultation paper is to elucidate the viewpoint of IFSCA on the need,
approach and suitable measures to be adopted for the regulation of tokenization of
certain real world assets, including financial securities such as funds6, bonds7, stocks, etc.,

4 Asian Banking & Finance: Tokenization of trade assets to bridge financing gap (2024):
https://asianbankingandfinance.net/banking-technology/exclusive/tokenization-trade-assets-bridge-
financing-gap
5 The list of members as well as terms of reference of the Expert Committee on Asset Tokenization can be
found at https://ifsca.gov.in/IFSCACommittees
6 BCG: Tokenized Funds: The Third Revolution in Asset Management Decoded (2024):
https://www.bcg.com/press/29october2024-tokenized-funds-the-third-revolution-in-asset-
management-decoded
7 HKMA - An Assessment on the benefits of Bond Tokenisation (2023) -
https://www.hkma.gov.hk/media/eng/publication-and-research/research/research-
memorandums/2023/RM04-2023.pdf

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 4 of 55
financial products such as payments 8 , deposits 9 , bills receivables 10 , precious metal
bullion 11 , commodities, intellectual property 12 and commercial real estate 13 .
Simultaneously, IFSCA wishes to put forth the regulatory hurdles and challenges
identified by it and by the Expert Committee on Asset Tokenization, to the wider audience
of relevant stakeholders and domain experts, in order to identify proportional, reasoned
and acceptable means of tackling these challenges.
This is being done in keeping with the collaborative and consultative approach to
regulation adopted by IFSCA, with the aim of formulating an appropriate legal and
regulatory response to the emerging domain of tokenization of real-world assets.

Invitation to Comment

IFSCA, by way of this consultation paper, hereby seeks comments/ views from various
market participants, academicians, domain experts and other public stakeholders on
certain questions pertaining to the subject of tokenization of real-world assets.
IFSCA’s approach and regulatory concerns pertaining to tokenization of real-world assets
are laid out in the upcoming parts of this consultation paper. The views are interspersed
with relevant questions (demarcated in coloured boxes), as and where appropriate. The

8 RBA: Tokenisation of Card Payments (2023): https://stripe.com/in/resources/more/payment-
tokenization-101
9 KPMG: Deposit Tokens: Bridging traditional banking and the digital economy:
https://kpmg.com/xx/en/our-insights/value-creation/deposit-tokens-bridging-traditional-banking-and-
the-digital-economy.html
10 Andrea Frosinini (2024): https://medium.com/@tradefin101/invoice-tokenization-unlocking-the-
potential-of-deep-tier-supply-chain-finance-9c407112526b
11 HSBC tokenises Gold: https://www.ledgerinsights.com/hsbc-tokenizes-gold/
12 Tokenisation of Intellectual Property: https://ripl.law.uic.edu/news-stories/tokenizing-ip-how-david-
bowie-and-blockchain-set-the-stage-for-creating-a-digital-exchange-for-intellectual-property-assets/
13 Terazo and Tokeny Join Forces for India’s First Regulated Tokenization Project:
https://tokeny.com/terazo-and-tokeny-join-forces-for-indias-first-regulated-tokenization-project/

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 5 of 55
consolidated list of questions emerging from the consultation paper may be found at
Annexure I of this document.

Respondents are requested to submit their responses vide email to Mr. Praveen Kamat,
General Manager, Department of Capital Markets, IFSCA, at
praveen.kamat@ifsca.gov.in with a copy to Mr. Matam Satya Prateek, Assistant
Manager, Department of Capital Markets, IFSCA, at prateek.matam@ifsca.gov.in,
latest by March 20, 2025 in the format specified below. Respondents are also requested
to indicate the organisation/ interests they represent and include their contact details. In
case a respondent wishes to remain anonymous, they are required to explicitly state the
same in their email.

<Name and details of the organization represented>

S. No. Question No.                                 Response

<Contact details of the respondent>

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 6 of 55
   Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-
                              World Assets

Intent of the proposed Regulatory Approach

The intent of the proposed regulatory approach towards tokenization of assets is to:

    1. Provide legal and regulatory recognition to ‘digital tokens’, representing rights of
         ownership or beneficial interest in underlying real-world assets.

    2. Evolve robust and reliable mechanisms for:
              a. Issuance of digital tokens.
              b. Trading in digital tokens.
              c. Custody of digital tokens.
              d. Clearing and settlement of trades in digital tokens.

         in a safe, efficient and reliable manner for orderly development of the digital token
         market.
    3. Develop a suitable framework for efficient market infrastructure to be put in place,
         supporting the digital token market.
    4. Identify the activities to be regulated in the digital token market and suitably
         calibrate the regulatory requirements to be imposed on the entities performing
         regulated activities in a proportionate and risk-based manner.
    5. Evolve an appropriate risk management framework for the digital token market,
         with special focus on AML/KYC, governance, technology and cyber risks.
    6. Address investor protection concerns and impose adequate standards of due
         diligence, disclosure and grievance redressal on the entities performing regulated
         activities in the digital token market.
    7. Foster continuous innovation and growth in the tokenization space, including by
         means of regulatory dispensations, self-regulation and disclosure-based regime.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 7 of 55
In this regard, IFSCA seeks comments/ views from the public on the questions laid out in
the subsequent sections. The questions (demarcated in coloured boxes) are preceded by
a purposed explanation/ guidance (in unformatted text format), that aims to set the
context and clarify the need to address the questions that follow. While the explanation
delineates the outlook and key regulatory concerns of IFSCA, the readers of this
consultation paper may add to or differ from the explanation provided, at the time of
answering the questions. IFSCA is under no obligation to adhere to/ comply with any
assumptions, approaches or suggestions made in the explanation provided.

For the ease of the readers of this consultation paper, the questions have been
categorized into four thematic sets. In each of these sets, IFSCA aims to address a set of
related questions, the scope of which is laid out in the explanation immediately following
the start of the respective set. The thematic sets and the questions within have been
ordered and numbered in a logical sequence. The readers of this consultation paper are
free to choose any number of questions from any of the thematic sets and provide a
response to IFSCA.

Note: This consultation paper by IFSCA pertains to the tokenization of real-world assets;
and does not cover other digital assets such as central bank digital currencies,
cryptocurrencies or crypto assets referencing non-financial virtual assets, such as
artwork (including Non-Fungible Tokens). IFSCA does not intend to regulate, permit
trading in or otherwise endorse any cryptocurrencies/ crypto assets. Any actions
referencing IFSCA or this consultation paper, with an intent to falsely represent its
contents, advertise cryptocurrencies/ crypto assets or mislead the public about the risks
involved in investing or trading in cryptocurrencies/ crypto assets will be liable for action
under the law.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 8 of 55
Question Set 1: Definition and some key characteristics of Digital
Tokens

[This set of questions pertain to regulatory concerns and approaches to defining a digital
token, in the form and manner that is conducive to orderly development of the tokenization
space.]

The definition of a digital asset or token varies across jurisdictions. Additionally, the
definition employed by several regulatory and governmental agencies differs, basis the
purpose which the definition is required to serve. Therefore, the definition of a digital
asset by a central bank may include the functions of a currency, that of a securities market
regulator might include the features of a security and that of a tax authority may be
limited in scope, for taxation purposes.

For instance, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has opined that “A digital
asset should be analyzed to determine whether it has the characteristics of any product
that meets the definition of ‘security’ under the federal securities laws” and used the
famed Howey Test for this purpose14. Government of India under the Income Tax Act,
inter-alia defines a “virtual digital asset” as “any information or code or number or token
(not being Indian currency or foreign currency), generated through cryptographic means
or otherwise, by whatever name called, providing a digital representation of value
exchanged with or without consideration, with the promise or representation of having
inherent value, or functions as a store of value or a unit of account including its use in any
financial transaction or investment, but not limited to investment scheme; and can be
transferred, stored or traded electronically”15.

14 For more information, see https://www.sec.gov/about/divisions-offices/division-corporation-
finance/framework-investment-contract-analysis-digital-assets
15 For the complete definition, see section 2(47A) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (No. 43 of 1961) as
amended from time to time at https://incometaxindia.gov.in/pages/acts/income-tax-act.aspx

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 9 of 55
A common taxonomy is critical for ensuring legal, tax and regulatory certainty in the
digital token market. However, the varied characteristics of different types of digital
tokens and the risks associated with each of them, makes appropriately defining the
digital token a nuanced task. The key characteristics of a digital token, which underpin
the kind of regulatory treatment and risks they entail, are elaborated below.

For the purposes of this consultation paper, readers may consider tokenization to refer
to “a process that involves utilising new technologies, such as distributed ledger
technology (DLT), to issue or represent assets in digital forms known as tokens”16.

Type of asset underlying a digital token

The paper (Carapella et al., 2023) 17 elaborates five design features underlying the
process of asset tokenization, the choice of “reference asset” being one among them. The
asset underlying the digital token can either be a real-world asset or an asset that resides
on the distributed ledger (i.e. ‘native’ to the distributed ledger). Real-world asset can be
further categorized into tangible assets (such as bullion or real estate) and intangible
assets (such as financial securities). However, as previously mentioned, the scope of this
consultation paper is limited to tokenization of real-world assets – whether tangible or
intangible. Hence, for the purposes of this consultation paper, the discussion pertains to
tokenization of real-world assets and not to assets which are native to the distributed
ledger.

16 Financial Stability Board report dated 22 October 2024 titled “The Financial Stability Implications of
Tokenisation”
https://www.fsb.org/2024/10/the-financial-stability-implications-of-tokenisation/
17 Carapella, Francesca, Grace Chuan, Jacob Gerszten, Chelsea Hunter, and Nathan Swem (2023).
“Tokenization: Overview and Financial Stability Implications,” Finance and Economics Discussion Series
2023-060. Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
https://doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2023.060

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 10 of 55
Within real-world assets, depending on the asset underlying the digital token, different
structures may be required to enable issuance and trading of tokens. Accordingly, the
activities that need to be regulated, the risks that need to be considered and means of
addressing said risks have to be suitably modified.
In the case of digital tokens issued against real-world asset, the following regulatory
considerations may be noted:

    a. Asset classes to be enabled18: Tokenization may be seen as a technological process,
         which can create an organized marketplace of real-world assets, potentially
         extending several advantages such as improving liquidity, reducing entry barriers
         (fractionalization), providing newer avenues for diversification etc. to investors.
         However, not all asset classes are amenable to tokenization. The reasons for this
         may include behavioural characteristics of the underlying asset class, legal
         restrictions around ownership, lack of public demand, non-fungibility of issued
         tokens, lack of reliable and periodic flow of information etc.

  Question 1.1a.1

 What are the classes of real-world assets that may be considered for tokenization?

18 (Carapella et al., 2023, Table 2) presents a list of tokenization examples along with the underlying
reference assets for the tokens issued
https://doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2023.060

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 11 of 55
Question 1.1a.2

What are the characteristics of a given real world asset class, which can potentially
determine the level of market acceptance, liquidity, and suitability for tokenization of
the asset class?

Question 1.1a.3

For each of the given real world asset classes, what are the key legal and regulatory
challenges that need to be addressed prior to enabling tokenization of the same?

  b. Maintenance of the real-world asset: As there is a real-world asset underpinning
       the issuance of digital tokens, it is a corollary that the maintenance, upkeep and
       safety of the underlying asset influences the price/ value of the tokens. Hence,
       there is a need to create an appropriate framework for safe custody, upkeep and
       maintenance of the underlying real-world asset, on behalf of the investors/
       holders of tokens issued against the asset.

Question 1.1b.1

What are the possible legal structures that may be employed for the safety, upkeep
and maintenance of real-world assets, by third-party service providers, for the benefit
of token holders/ investors?

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 12 of 55
Question 1.1b.2

What are the key obligations and responsibilities that may be imposed on the third-
party service providers, providing custody and maintenance services for real-world
assets underlying digital tokens?

  c. Ensuring legal and regulatory certainty: Let us assume that a real-world asset is
       placed in the custody of a third-party service provider under trust, and digital
       tokens have been issued against it. Subsequently, changes can arise in the
       ownership/ beneficial interest of the real-world asset, as a result of trades that
       have been executed involving tokens of the asset. There is a need to ensure that
       such changes are given effect in the real world.

Question 1.1c.1

What are the possible legal structures that may be employed for ensuring legal
recognition to changes in the ownership/ beneficial interest of the real-world asset,
as a consequence of successfully executed trades in tokens of the underlying real-
world asset?

  d. Redemption/ exit from investment: In order to ensure market stability and
       investor protection, market participants who own or trade in digital tokens, need
       to have options for reasonable exit from their investment at all times. The
       constraints to such an exit may arise due to restrictions on sale of tokens, lack of
       demand/ liquidity for the tokens, lack of divisibility of the underlying asset etc.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 13 of 55
  Question 1.1d.1

  What are the possible safeguards/ measures that may be mandated for ensuring that
  investors/ token holders are able to exit their investment (by way of cash settlement)
  or redeem their tokens (by way of change in ownership of underlying real-world
  asset), without significant loss of time or detrimental impact to the value of their
  holdings?

Rights represented by digital tokens

Ownership of a digital token must entitle the investor/ token holder to some sets of rights.
It is assumed that it is the value of these rights, linked to an underlying real-world asset,
that gives value to the digital tokens. Digital tokens issued against a real-world asset
commonly entitle the token holder to proportional ownership of the underlying real-
world asset, or beneficial interest in the revenues generated by an underlying asset. IMF’s
Working Paper titled “Digital Tokens: A Legal Perspective”19, rightly classifies tokens
based on the rights it affords, and explores the implications, feasibility and enforceability
of different types of rights accorded to digital tokens. Hence, there is a need to carefully
consider the types of rights that a digital token entitles its holder/ investor to, as the same
must be a part of informed decision making of market participants at the time of
investment or trading.

19 Garrido, J. M., 2023, Digital Tokens: A Legal Perspective, IMF WP/23/151,
https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/WP/Issues/2023/07/28/Digital-Tokens-A-Legal-Perspective-
537041

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 14 of 55
Question 1.2.1

What are the possible types of rights that digital tokens may be allowed to represent?
What factors may determine whether a given right can be tokenized, effectively traded
and ultimately enforced, in a safe and reliable manner?

Question 1.2.2

What are the possible mechanisms for ensuring that the rights represented by digital
tokens are transferred in an efficient and reliable manner, as and when the trades in
the digital tokens occur?

Question 1.2.3

What are the appropriate disclosures that need to be made to potential investors/
token holders, pertaining to the rights represented by digital tokens?

Question 1.2.4

Should the ownership of digital tokens entitle the token holders to rights to participate
in the decisions pertaining to the underlying real-world asset (such as administration
or sale of the asset, de-tokenization of the asset/ extinguishing of the tokens etc.)? If
yes, what are such decisions which are relevant to the token holders, and what
mechanisms can be employed to give effect to such decisions?

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 15 of 55
Manner of recognizing ownership of digital tokens

There are multiple modes of recognizing ownership of digital tokens. One broad
distinction which can be made is whether the token ownership is recognized in bearer
form or registered form. Bearer form implies that the token holder is the owner of the
tokens and by extension, entitled to the ownership rights/ beneficial interest represented
by the tokens, simply by virtue of holding the token in his/ her custody or control.
Registered form implies that the ownership of digital tokens at any given point in time, is
being recorded in a ledger (say, by the issuer of tokens) and the disbursement of benefits
and entitlements, recognition of the beneficial owner, successful execution of trades etc.,
be recorded and effected by means of the said ledger. For instance, a guidance document20
published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, makes a similar
distinction between the tokenization structures (categorized as “Bearer”, “Registered”
and “Claims” structures) for the purposes of use and transfer of “Tokenized Collateral” as
collateral in transactions.

  Question 1.3.1

 Should the ownership form of digital tokens be restricted to registered form, to bearer
 form, or shall encompass both the types? What are the factors influencing the
 suitability of a given form of ownership to the digital tokens of a particular type/ given
 real-world asset class?

20 “Guidance for memorandum of law examining the validity and enforceability of collateral arrangements
using the ISDA model provisions for tokenized collateral ”, published on 21 May 2024, by ISDA

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 16 of 55
  Question 1.3.2

 What are the different advantages and disadvantages of recognizing a particular form
 of token ownership? What are risks associated to each of the forms of ownership?

  Question 1.3.3

 What are the kinds of benefits and entitlements, which may need to be disbursed to
 the investors/ token holders, basis ownership records? What are the advantages and
 disadvantages of a particular form of ownership in this regard?

Question Set 2: Evolving appropriate mechanisms for Issuance,
Custody, Trading, Clearing and Settlement of Digital Tokens

[This set of questions pertain to regulatory concerns and approaches pertaining to the
issuance, custody and secondary market trading of Digital Tokens.]

Jurisdictions across the world are yet to arrive at a consensus on the appropriate
regulatory treatment for issuance, custody and secondary market transactions in digital
tokens. OECD’s report titled “Regulatory Approaches to the Tokenisation of Assets”21,
which categorises and summarises the approaches taken in various jurisdictions states
that “Policy makers in different jurisdictions have approached tokenisation in different
ways, either by applying existing financial regulations to tokenised assets; by introducing

21 OECD (2021), Regulatory Approaches to the Tokenisation of Assets, OECD Publishing, Paris,
https://doi.org/10.1787/aea35466-en

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 17 of 55
new tailor-made regulatory frameworks or by adapting existing rules to accommodate
the application of DLTs in tokenisation.”

Regulating the real-world asset tokenization space is, justifiably, a complex and layered
problem. However, addressing it holds the key to bringing the domain of real-world asset
tokenization under the regulatory ambit, leading to a secure and organized digital asset
ecosystem, and unlocking the value and benefits of tokenization to the world.

There are several financial sector regulators, national governments and supra-national
bodies which are conducting pilot projects and coming up with limited-purpose policy
recommendations for appropriate regulation of the tokenization space. (Carapella et al.,
2023, Section 2)22 provides some specific examples of tokenization projects undertaken
till date. IFSCA is a keen observer and willing contributor to the evolution of an
appropriate regulatory framework for tokenization. In furtherance of these efforts,
IFSCA, in collaboration with the Expert Committee on Asset Tokenization, has tried to
envisage an entirely new architecture for issuance, custody, and secondary market
transactions of digital tokens. The key aspects of a regulated and organized digital token
marketplace, identified as a result of this process, are elaborated below.

Issuance of Digital Tokens

Issuance of Digital Tokens refers to the minting of new digital tokens in a regulated digital
token market. Inherent to the process of token issuance are the risks of illegitimate/
faulty issue of tokens. The illegitimate issue may be due to a cyber breach, issuer
malfeasance or lack of adequate regulatory control over issue of such tokens. This can
adversely impact the price of tokens already being traded in the market, leading to loss

22 Carapella, Francesca, Grace Chuan, Jacob Gerszten, Chelsea Hunter, and Nathan Swem (2023).
“Tokenization: Overview and Financial Stability Implications,” Finance and Economics Discussion Series
2023-060. Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
https://doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2023.060

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 18 of 55
of investor confidence and market stability. Therefore, the activity of “validation” of
digital tokens has emerged as a specialized function performed by some entities in the
tokenization space. IFSCA is of the view that issuance of digital tokens can be a suitably
regulated activity. In this regard, the following key regulatory considerations may be
noted:

  Question 2.1.1

 Do you agree that issuance of digital tokens should be a regulated activity? Give
 reasons in favour of your opinion.

  Question 2.1.2

 What is the nature of interaction/ relationship between the owner of an underlying
 asset (who wishes to engage an Issuer for issuance of tokens against a real-world
 asset) and the Issuer? Is there a requirement to regulate this relationship?

  Question 2.1.3

  What are the appropriate regulatory requirements that may be imposed on the Issuer
  of digital tokens, in order to ensure that genuine assets are tokenized by legitimate
  owners of the underlying real-world asset?

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 19 of 55
Custody of Digital Tokens

Custody of digital tokens refers to the act of safekeeping and management of digital
tokens. Custody may be with the investor or beneficial owner directly (i.e., self-custody),
or with a custodian, who holds the tokens on behalf of an investor, in trust (i.e., custody
as a service). (OECD, 2021, Section 4.2)23 discusses various approaches to regulating the
role of custodianship in the tokenization space. IFSCA is of the view that provision of
custody services can be a suitably regulated activity. In this regard, the following key
regulatory considerations may be noted:

  Question 2.2.1

 Do you agree that provision of custody services for digital tokens should be a
 regulated activity? Give reasons in favour of your opinion.

  Question 2.2.2

 Should custody be restricted to self-custody, to regulated custody service providers,
 or be permitted in both formats? What are the risks associated with each of these
 forms of custody?

23 OECD (2021), Regulatory Approaches to the Tokenisation of Assets, OECD Publishing, Paris,
https://doi.org/10.1787/aea35466-en

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 20 of 55
  Question 2.2.3

  What are the appropriate regulatory requirements that may be imposed on the
  custody service provider?

Trading, Clearing and Settlement of Digital Tokens

A key component of any vibrant digital asset ecosystem is the secondary marketplace for
transactions in digital tokens. Without a safe, efficient and reliable marketplace, market
participants would not be confident to invest and transact in digital tokens, i.e., vibrancy
in the secondary market and vibrancy in the primary/ issuance market complement each
other. Instilling investor confidence and public trust in the regulatory and technological
architecture underpinning the digital token market is, therefore, of paramount
importance for the success of digital asset ecosystem.
IFSCA, therefore, wishes to re-imagine the digital token market from first principles and
identify possible market participants and appropriate regulatory treatment for each of
them. In this regard, the following regulatory concerns pertaining to the digital token
market (irrespective of the technology used in the market infrastructure) may be noted:

  Question 2.3.1

  What comprises the market infrastructure for a digital asset market? Does it differ
  from the market infrastructure in the traditional securities market? If yes, please
  elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 21 of 55
Question 2.3.2

What are the key functions of market infrastructure in a digital asset market? Does it
differ from the key functions of market infrastructure in the traditional securities
market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 2.3.3

What are the key regulatory requirements that need to be imposed on market
infrastructure institutions in a digital token market? Does it differ from the regulatory
requirements imposed on market infrastructure institutions in the traditional
securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 2.3.4

What are the various market participants involved in a digital asset market? Are they
different from the market participants in the traditional securities market? If yes,
please elaborate.

Question 2.3.5

What are the key functions of market participants in a digital token market for real-
world assets? Are they different from the functions of respective market participants
in the traditional securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 22 of 55
  Question 2.3.6

 What are the key regulatory requirements that need to be imposed on market
 participants in a digital token market for real-world assets? Are they different from
 the regulatory requirements imposed on respective market participants in the
 traditional securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

  Question 2.3.7

 What are the various factors which determine the level of public trust and investor
 confidence in a market?

IFSCA endeavours to uphold the principle of “same risk, same regulation” to the extent
possible, in its regulatory treatment of market infrastructure in the digital token market.
With this in mind, IFSCA, in collaboration with the Expert Committee on Asset
Tokenization, has undertaken a careful study and consideration of the operational
mechanisms employed by Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based market
infrastructure. Consequently, IFSCA has noted that DLT based market infrastructure
(with the embedded use of Smart Contracts) deserves a differentiated treatment from
non-DLT based market infrastructure. This is in keeping with the principle of “same risk,
same regulation”, as the risks in a DLT based market are different in form and magnitude,
compared to those in a non-DLT based market. Such a differentiated treatment is also
warranted, as treating DLT based market infrastructure in the same manner as non-DLT
based market infrastructure can negate the potential benefits of DLT (such as
transparency and immutability), while not adequately addressing the limitations and
risks involved (such as scalability issues, lack of separation of roles, technology risk, legal

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 23 of 55
risk). (OECD, 2021)24 recognizes the prevalence of this view among policy makers when
it states that “Policy makers in a number of jurisdictions have opted for bespoke, tailor-
made rules for (parts of) tokenised asset markets, sometimes in spite of a general
technology-neutral approach to financial regulation, as they recognise that the
combination of technologies such as DLTs with finance could give rise to the potential for
new types of risks”.

  Question 2.3.8

 Should market infrastructure be categorised into Distributed Ledger Technology
 (DLT) based and non-DLT based categories? Is there any other manner of categorising
 the market infrastructure for the purposes of differentiated regulatory treatment? If
 yes, please elaborate on the same.

  Question 2.3.9

 Do you agree with the view that Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based market
 infrastructure should be accorded differentiated regulatory treatment as compared to
 non-DLT based market infrastructure? What are relevant reasons for such a
 differentiation?

24 OECD (2021), Regulatory Approaches to the Tokenisation of Assets, OECD Publishing, Paris,
https://doi.org/10.1787/aea35466-en

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 24 of 55
  Question 2.3.10

 What are the characteristics/ features of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT), which
 warrant a differentiated regulatory treatment of market infrastructure? What are the
 associated limitations and risks that need to be addressed in this regard?

Consequently, the key regulatory considerations specific to the use of DLT in market
infrastructure are as follows:

    a. Separation of trading, clearing and settlement functions: In many a case, the use
         of DLT and Smart Contracts can eliminate the distinction between the clearing and
         settlement of a trade and the trade itself. While this brings in efficiencies, there are
         several attendant limitations and risks, pertaining to settlement finality,
         multilateral netting etc. (Priem, 2020) 25 discusses the benefits, risks and
         regulatory implications of using DLT in the clearing and settlement of securities.

  Question 2.3.11a.1

 In the case of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based market infrastructure, is
 there a need to redefine the processes of clearing and settlement? If yes, please
 elaborate.

25 Randy Priem (2020), “Distributed ledger technology for securities clearing and settlement: benefits,
risks, and regulatory implications”
https://jfin-swufe.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40854-019-0169-6

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 25 of 55
Question 2.3.11a.2

What are the inherent risks and limitations of automatic clearing and settlement of
trades in a Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based market infrastructure?

Question 2.3.11a.3

What are the major hurdles to ensuring legal and regulatory certainty to transactions
effected by smart contracts on Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based market
infrastructure?

  b. Change in the process of issuance and custody: With the use of DLT based market
       infrastructure and smart contracts, there is a need to reconsider the processes that
       comprise issuance and custody of digital tokens. For instance, if digital tokens are
       issued/ transferred (say, by accident or fraud) and the said transactions have been
       recorded on the distributed ledger successfully, it may subsequently become
       challenging to separate a genuine transaction from a fraudulent one, because of
       the immutability of the distributed ledger.

Question 2.3.11b.1

In the case of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based market infrastructure, is
there a need to redefine the processes of issuance and custody? If yes, please
elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 26 of 55
Question 2.3.11b.2

What are the inherent risks and limitations of issuance and custody of digital tokens
on a Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based market infrastructure?

  c. Change in roles of market participants: With the use of DLT based market
       infrastructure and smart contracts, there is scope for disintermediation between
       the end investors/ token holders and the market infrastructure. This brings about
       changes in the roles performed by market participants, when compared to the
       traditional securities market and non-DLT based digital token market. For
       instance, the role of a custody service provider may differ and an intermediary
       such as Broker-Dealer may not be required anymore. Recognizing the regulatory
       concerns in this regard, (OECD, 2021)26 states that “It can sometimes be difficult
       to know with certainty whether tokenisation is fully captured by the regulatory
       perimeter, especially given the novel nature of some new business models and
       processes involved. Potential gaps in the regulatory treatment of tokenisation may
       give rise to regulatory arbitrage opportunities and/or give rise to novel risks that
       may arise from the application of innovative technologies, such as DLTs. It is
       therefore important to identify whether existing regulation may need to apply to
       new actors present in tokenised assets markets and/or whether new
       requirements may be needed to be added to existing policies”.

26 OECD (2021), Regulatory Approaches to the Tokenisation of Assets, OECD Publishing, Paris,
https://doi.org/10.1787/aea35466-en

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 27 of 55
Question 2.3.11c.1

What are the various market participants involved in a Distributed Ledger Technology
(DLT) based digital token market for real-world assets? Are they different from the
market participants in a non-DLT based digital token market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 2.3.11c.2

What are the key functions of market participants involved in a Distributed Ledger
Technology (DLT) based digital token market for real-world assets? Are they different
from the functions of respective market participants in a non-DLT based digital token
market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 2.3.11c.3

What are the key regulatory requirements that need to be imposed on market
participants in a Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based digital token market for
real-world assets? Are they different from the regulatory requirements imposed on
respective market participants in a non-DLT based digital token market? If yes, please
elaborate.

  d. Characteristics/ Features unique to Distributed Ledgers: It is possible to make a
       distinction among distributed ledgers based on various characteristics. Some
       characteristics such as whether the distributed ledger is public or private,
       permissioned or permissionless, have significant relevance to the risks involved

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 28 of 55
       in their use, thereby needing differentiated regulatory treatment27. Additionally,
       challenges such as interoperability among distributed ledgers have significant
       relevance to their suitability for market infrastructure.

Question 2.3.11d.1

What are the characteristics of a Distributed Ledger that have a significant bearing on
their suitability for market infrastructure?

Question 2.3.11d.2

Do you agree with the view that certain characteristics of Distributed Ledgers impact
the form and magnitude of risks they pose, when employed in a digital token market?
What are the relevant characteristics of Distributed Ledgers and their respective risks
which need regulatory consideration?

Question 2.3.11d.3

What are the possible regulatory requirements that may be considered for addressing
the risks emanating from the use of different types of Distributed Ledgers in a digital
token market?

27 A February 2017 publication by BIS’s Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures provides for
an analytical framework for evaluating DLT in payment, clearing and settlement systems, based on
technical and institutional design elements of the DLT employed. It is available here

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 29 of 55
Question Set 3: Evolving an appropriate Risk Management Framework
for Digital Tokens

[This set of questions pertain to regulatory concerns and approaches to evolving an
appropriate risk management framework for ensuring orderly development and stability of
the digital token market.]

Evolving an appropriate risk management framework is key to the development of a
secure and reliable digital token market. Given the rapid pace of evolution in the domain
of tokenization, limited regulatory capacities and lack of adequate consumer awareness,
some jurisdictions have been wary of regulating the tokenization space and have resorted
to outright bans instead. However, such outright bans have their own limitations, such as
stifling innovation and lack of a swift recourse for defrauded victims. IFSCA believes that
it is possible to evolve a comprehensive risk management framework that enables the
evolution of a regulated digital token market. With this in mind, IFSCA, in collaboration
with the Expert Committee on Asset Tokenization, has identified the following focus areas
for the proposed risk management framework:

    a. Governance risks: Given the wide range of business use-cases surrounding
         tokenization of real world assets, there is lack of clarity on governance of the
         market infrastructure institutions and the market participants involved. The
         absence of adequate legal and regulatory controls, lack of separation of roles,
         conflicts of interest, over-emphasis on technological aspects in these new age
         institutions, has led to understatement of the risks that may emanate from poor
         governance in these institutions. Financial Stability Board, in its report titled
         “Decentralised financial technologies: Report on financial stability, regulatory and
         governance implications”28 has elaborated on this aspect.

28 Financial Stability Board report dated 6 June 2019 titled “Decentralised financial technologies: Report
on financial stability, regulatory and governance implications”

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 30 of 55
Question 3.a.1

What are the key governance risks in market infrastructure institutions and market
participants in a digital token market for real-world assets? Are they different from
the governance risks in respective institutions in the traditional securities market? If
yes, please elaborate.

Question 3.a.2

What are the possible regulatory requirements that may be imposed on market
infrastructure institutions and market participants, so as to ensure good standards of
corporate governance?

Question 3.a.3

What are the possible conflicts of interest for various market participants in the digital
token market? What possible regulatory measures may be imposed on the market
participants to address the same?

  b. Technology risks: In the digital token market, there is a heavy reliance on
       technology for performing several functions, which were hitherto performed by
       distinct entities which specialize in such functions. In this regard, (OECD, 2021)29

https://www.fsb.org/2019/06/decentralised-financial-technologies-report-on-financial-stability-
regulatory-and-governance-implications/

29 OECD (2021), Regulatory Approaches to the Tokenisation of Assets, OECD Publishing, Paris,
https://doi.org/10.1787/aea35466-en

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 31 of 55
       states that “At the same time, the application of DLTs in tokenised markets may
       give rise to important risks and challenges stemming from the novel nature of
       some of the business models and processes involved in tokenisation, and the
       innovative character of the technology itself. Operational vulnerabilities related to
       the technology deployed include scalability (given the significant throughput that
       would be required for the scale of global financial markets); potential uncertainty
       over settlement finality (i.e. final and irrevocable settlement of payment
       instructions with deterministic finality); interoperability between different
       networks that will allow for connectivity of different infrastructures, as well as
       interoperability of DLT-based infrastructure with traditional one;”. When DLT-
       based infrastructure is complemented by Smart Contracts, the chances of
       technological limitations being realized only after market’s reliance on them
       reaches criticality, is a very real and persistent risk. Hence, appropriate means of
       handling technology risks is crucial for the development of a secure digital token
       market.

Question 3.b.1

What are the key technology risks in market infrastructure institutions and market
participants in a digital token market? Are they different from the technology risks in
respective institutions in the traditional securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 3.b.2

What are the possible regulatory requirements that may be imposed on market
infrastructure institutions and market participants, so as to adequately limit
technology risks?

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 32 of 55
Question 3.b.3

Do you agree that use of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) and Smart Contracts
by market infrastructure institutions and market participants changes the form and
magnitude of technology risks posed to the digital token market? If yes, please
elaborate.

Question 3.b.4

What are the possible regulatory requirements that may be imposed on market
infrastructure institutions and market participants using Distributed Ledger
Technology (DLT) and Smart Contracts, so as to adequately address the technology
risks arising from the same?

  c. Cyber risks: Though it may be argued that cyber risks are a subset of technological
       risks, nevertheless, IFSCA believes that the regulatory concerns surrounding
       cyber risks deserve special attention. The heavy reliance on cryptography and
       other forms of technology-enforced security in the digital token market creates
       significant cyber risk. In the case of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) and
       Smart Contracts, the decentralization and disintermediation may lead to
       concentration of high amounts of risk in critical pieces of infrastructure or code.
       (OECD, 2021)30 notes this concern by stating that “The auditability of the code of
       smart contracts and relevant permissions to change the code are other areas of
       concern”. The leakage of personally identifiable information, which can help link
       a person’s identity with his/ her public key, may allow all participants on a

30 OECD (2021), Regulatory Approaches to the Tokenisation of Assets, OECD Publishing, Paris,
https://doi.org/10.1787/aea35466-en

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 33 of 55
       Distributed Ledger to track that person’s transactions. Hence, addressing the
       cyber risks involved is crucial for ensuring reliability of a digital token market.

Question 3.c.1

What are the key cyber risks in market infrastructure institutions and market
participants in a digital token market? Are they different from the cyber risks in
respective institutions in the traditional securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 3.c.2

What are the possible regulatory requirements that may be imposed on market
infrastructure institutions and market participants, so as to adequately limit cyber
risks?

Question 3.c.3

Do you agree that the use of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) and Smart
Contracts by market infrastructure institutions and market participants changes the
form and magnitude of cyber risks posed to the digital token market? If yes, please
elaborate.

Question 3.c.4

What are the possible regulatory requirements that may be imposed on market
infrastructure institutions and market participants using Distributed Ledger
Technology (DLT) and Smart Contracts, so as to adequately address the cyber risks
arising from the same?

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 34 of 55
  d. Money Laundering/ Terrorist Financing risks: The legal and regulatory
       framework for the digital token market is still a work in progress in several
       jurisdictions. Due to the absence of regulatory guardrails, regulators and national
       governments are understandably concerned about the Money Laundering/
       Terrorist Financing (ML/TF) risks posed by the digital token market. The cross-
       border nature of transactions, anonymity afforded by the use of certain
       technologies, scope for regulatory arbitrage, differential privacy and Know-Your-
       Customer (KYC) standards etc. further compound this problem. (OECD, 2021)31
       states that “Risks related to AML/CFT are prominent in DLT-based systems and
       are particularly high in tokenised markets that are based on public permissionless
       networks”. Hence, IFSCA believes that the ML/TF risks posed by a digital token
       market deserve special regulatory consideration.

Question 3.d.1

What are the key Money Laundering/ Terrorist Financing (ML/TF) risks posed by a
digital token market? Are they different from the ML/TF risks in the traditional
securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 3.d.2

What are the possible regulatory requirements that may be imposed on market
infrastructure institutions and market participants, so as to adequately limit Money
Laundering/ Terrorist Financing (ML/TF) risks?

31 OECD (2021), Regulatory Approaches to the Tokenisation of Assets, OECD Publishing, Paris,
https://doi.org/10.1787/aea35466-en

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 35 of 55
  Question 3.d.3

 Do you agree that the use of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) and Smart
 Contracts by market infrastructure institutions and market participants changes the
 form and magnitude of Money Laundering/ Terrorist Financing (ML/TF) risks posed
 by the digital token market? If yes, please elaborate.

  Question 3.d.4

 What are the possible regulatory requirements that may be imposed on market
 infrastructure institutions and market participants using Distributed Ledger
 Technology (DLT) and Smart Contracts, so as to adequately address the Money
 Laundering/ Terrorist Financing (ML/TF) risks arising from the same?

Question Set 4: Providing suitable catalysts for organic growth and
development of the Digital Tokens market

[This set of questions pertain to regulatory concerns and approaches to enabling the
organic growth and development of a digital asset ecosystem.]
Tokenization is an idea that has the potential to reshape the financial ecosystem as we
know it. However, this domain has also suffered several setbacks in its journey of
becoming a mainstay on the stage of international finance. There are several reasons for
this - lack of regulatory oversight, poor governance standards, over-reliance on
technology, innovation at a breakneck pace and lack of public awareness, among them.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 36 of 55
Possible roadblocks to tokenisation identified in a OECD (2025) paper32 are associated
with the lack of liquidity and absence of an ecosystem for tokenised assets; the absence
of evidence around measurable materialised benefits at large scale and the lack of
investment rationale for the transition towards DLTs; the need for payment rails
integrated in DLTs or wholesale CBDCs to exist for the payment leg of settlement; the
drawbacks of instant and simultaneous ‘atomic’ settlement; the lack of custodians to
onboard investors and assets; the complexity of the underlying DLT infrastructure; the
absence of identification solutions and the lack of industry standardisation practices
around tokenisation. Other limitations include legal issues, such as the fact that
ownership of a token does not necessarily accord ownership to the underlying asset; the
legal status of smart contracts; or limits with regards to settlement finality when using
DLTs.

IFSCA believes that there is a need for certain catalysts to be provided for the organic
growth and development of the digital token market. In the tokenization domain, there
are several tough problems being tackled by the entities, industry associations and supra-
national bodies through trial and error, and constant innovation. At times, these
experiments require regulatory dispensations and relaxations. However, in the quest of
safeguarding investor interests and public trust in the digital token market, regulatory
bodies may adopt a hardline approach, often stifling innovation.

On the other hand, the absence of adequate regulation also does not inspire public
confidence in the digital token market. It is important that both the industry and
regulatory bodies realize the need for collaboration and consultation, for stable and
organic growth of the digital token market. In this spirit, IFSCA wishes to explore
appropriate means to minimize the compliance burden, foster innovation and inspire

32 OECD (2025): Tokenisation of Assets and Distributed Ledger Technologies in Financial Markets -
https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/publications/reports/2025/01/tokenisation-of-assets-
and-distributed-ledger-technologies-in-financial-markets_be149012/40e7f217-en.pdf

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 37 of 55
public trust, for accelerated development of the regulated digital token market. The key
regulatory considerations in this regard are as follows:

    a. Ensuring investor protection and awareness: It is in the interest of orderly
         development of the digital token market that potential investors and token
         holders are adequately protected. (OECD, 2020) 33 opines that “Wider use of
         tokenised securities raises potential financial consumer protection and market
         conduct issues, the handling of which will be essential to safeguard investors'
         interests and ensure a fair and orderly market for tokenised assets. Recourse and
         redress in case of damage due to a technical issue, theft or non-existent real asset
         backing the tokenisation is only one example of such investor risk involved”.
         Hence, due emphasis on suitable disclosures, due diligence requirements and
         grievance redressal mechanisms is necessitated for upholding the interests of
         investors.

  Question 4.a.1

  What are the key investor protection concerns in a digital token market? Are they
  different from the investor protection concerns in the traditional securities market? If
  yes, please elaborate.

33 OECD (2020), The Tokenisation of Assets and Potential Implications for Financial Markets, OECD
Blockchain Policy Series,
https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/finance-and-investment/the-tokenisation-of-assets-and-potential-
implications-for-financial-markets_83493d34-en

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 38 of 55
Question 4.a.2

What are the key investor education/ awareness concerns in a digital token market?
Are they different from the investor education/ awareness concerns in the traditional
securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 4.a.3

What are the key disclosures to be made by market infrastructure institutions and
market participants in the digital token market for ensuring investor protection and
awareness? Are they different from the disclosures being made in the traditional
securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 4.a.4

What are the key due diligence requirements to be imposed on market participants in
the digital token market for ensuring investor protection and awareness? Are they
different from the due diligence requirements on the market participants in the
traditional securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 4.a.5

What are the suitable avenues for grievance redressal that may be provided to
investors in a digital token market? Are they different from the grievance redressal
mechanisms in the traditional securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 39 of 55
Question 4.a.6

Are there any other suitable measures for furthering the cause of investor protection
and awareness in the digital token market? If yes, please elaborate.

  b. Developing industry-wide best practices and standards: In a nascent industry such
       as the tokenization space, it is important that adoption of best practices and
       standard-setting be undertaken at the industry level. This can reduce the
       compliance burden on the entities, accelerate the pace of innovation and ensure
       orderly development of the digital token market. IFSCA believes that the task of
       evolving a code of advertising and code of conduct/ code of ethics is best left to
       the industry.

Question 4.b.1

Do you agree that industry-level associations and bodies are well suited to develop
best practices and common standards for the participants in the digital token market?
Please give reasons supporting your opinion.

Question 4.b.2

Do you agree that market participants in the digital token market are well suited to
evolve a Code of Advertising/ Code of Marketing for themselves? Please give reasons
supporting your opinion.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 40 of 55
Question 4.b.3

Do you agree that market participants in the digital token market are well suited to
evolve a Code of Conduct/ Code of Ethics for themselves? Please give reasons
supporting your opinion.

Question 4.b.4

Are self-regulatory organizations or industry-level associations well suited for
enforcing the best practices and common standards evolved for market participants
in the digital asset domain? Please give reasons supporting your opinion.

  c. Reducing the compliance burden for market participants: Given that the
       tokenization space is fast-evolving and constantly experimenting, there is a need
       for light-touch regulation and regulatory dispensations, for fostering innovation
       and reducing the compliance burden for the market participants. In this regard,
       disclosure-based regime and sandbox approach may be suitably employed.

Question 4.c.1

What are the suitable avenues for imposing a disclosure-based regime on the market
infrastructure institutions and market participants in the digital token market? Please
elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 41 of 55
Question 4.c.2

Do you agree that sandbox approach is useful for lowering the compliance burden and
fostering innovation in the digital token market? Please give reasons supporting your
opinion.

Question 4.c.3

What are other possible measures that may be adopted for lowering the compliance
burden on the market infrastructure institutions and market participants in the digital
token market? Please elaborate.

Question 4.c.4

What are other possible measures that may be adopted for fostering innovation in the
digital token market? Please elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 42 of 55
Annexure I: Consolidated list of questions

Question Set 1: Definition and some key characteristics of Digital Tokens

Question No.                Question                              Reference

Question 1.1a.1 What are the classes of real-world assets that may Page 11

              be considered for tokenization?

Question 1.1a.2 What are the characteristics of a given real world Page 12

              asset class, which can potentially determine the

              level of market acceptance, liquidity, and

              suitability for tokenization of the asset class?

Question 1.1a.3 For each of the given real world asset classes, what Page 12

              are the key legal and regulatory challenges that

              need to be addressed prior to enabling

              tokenization of the same?

Question 1.1b.1 What are the possible legal structures that may be Page 12

              employed for the safety, upkeep and maintenance

              of real-world assets, by third-party service

              providers, for the benefit of token holders/

              investors?

Question 1.1b.2 What are the key obligations and responsibilities Page 13

              that may be imposed on the third-party service

              providers, providing custody and maintenance

              services for real-world assets underlying digital

              tokens?

Question 1.1c.1 What are the possible legal structures that may be Page 13

              employed for ensuring legal recognition to changes

              in the ownership/ beneficial interest of the real-

              world asset, as a consequence of successfully

              executed trades in tokens of the underlying real-

              world asset?

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets     Page 43 of 55
Question 1.1d.1  What are the possible safeguards/ measures that Page 14
                 may be mandated for ensuring that investors/
Question 1.2.1   token holders are able to exit their investment (by
Question 1.2.2   way of cash settlement) or redeem their tokens (by
Question 1.2.3   way of change in ownership of underlying real-
Question 1.2.4   world asset), without significant loss of time or
                 detrimental impact to the value of their holdings?
                 What are the possible types of rights that digital Page 15
                 tokens may be allowed to represent? What factors
                 may determine whether a given right can be
                 tokenized, effectively traded and ultimately
                 enforced, in a safe and reliable manner?
                 What are the possible mechanisms for ensuring Page 15
                 that the rights represented by digital tokens are
                 transferred in an efficient and reliable manner, as
                 and when the trades in the digital tokens occur?
                 What are the appropriate disclosures that need to Page 15
                 be made to potential investors/ token holders,
                 pertaining to the rights represented by digital
                 tokens?
                 Should the ownership of digital tokens entitle the Page 15
                 token holders to rights to participate in the
                 decisions pertaining to the underlying real-world
                 asset (such as administration or sale of the asset,
                 de-tokenization of the asset/ extinguishing of the
                 tokens etc.)? If yes, what are such decisions which
                 are relevant to the token holders, and what
                 mechanisms can be employed to give effect to such
                 decisions?

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 44 of 55
Question 1.3.1  Should the ownership form of digital tokens be Page 16

                restricted to registered form, to bearer form, or

                shall encompass both the types? What are the

                factors influencing the suitability of a given form of

                ownership to the digital tokens of a particular

                type/ given real-world asset class?

Question 1.3.2  What are the different advantages and Page 17

                disadvantages of recognizing a particular form of

                token ownership? What are risks associated to

                each of the forms of ownership?

Question 1.3.3  What are the kinds of benefits and entitlements, Page 17

                which may need to be disbursed to the investors/

                token holders, basis ownership records? What are

                the advantages and disadvantages of a particular

                form of ownership in this regard?

Question Set 2: Evolving appropriate mechanisms for Issuance, Custody, Trading,

Clearing and Settlement of Digital Tokens

Question No.                       Question                             Reference

Question 2.1.1  Do you agree that issuance of digital tokens should Page 19

                be a regulated activity? Give reasons in favour of

                your opinion.

Question 2.1.2  What is the nature of interaction/ relationship Page 19

                between the owner of an underlying asset (who

                wishes to engage an Issuer for issuance of tokens

                against a real-world asset) and the Issuer? Is there

                a requirement to regulate this relationship?

Question 2.1.3  What are the appropriate regulatory requirements Page 19

                that may be imposed on the Issuer of digital tokens,

                in order to ensure that genuine assets are

                tokenized by legitimate owners of the underlying

                real-world asset?

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets           Page 45 of 55
Question 2.2.1  Do you agree that provision of custody services for Page 20
Question 2.2.2  digital tokens should be a regulated activity? Give
Question 2.2.3  reasons in favour of your opinion.
Question 2.3.1  Should custody be restricted to self-custody, to Page 20
Question 2.3.2  regulated custody service providers, or be
Question 2.3.3  permitted in both formats? What are the risks
                associated with each of these forms of custody?
Question 2.3.4  What are the appropriate regulatory requirements Page 21
                that may be imposed on the custody service
                provider?
                What comprises the market infrastructure for a Page 21
                digital asset market? Does it differ from the market
                infrastructure in the traditional securities market?
                If yes, please elaborate.
                What are the key functions of market Page 22
                infrastructure in a digital asset market? Does it
                differ from the key functions of market
                infrastructure in the traditional securities market?
                If yes, please elaborate.
                What are the key regulatory requirements that Page 22
                need to be imposed on market infrastructure
                institutions in a digital token market? Does it differ
                from the regulatory requirements imposed on
                market infrastructure institutions in the
                traditional securities market? If yes, please
                elaborate.
                What are the various market participants involved Page 22
                in a digital asset market? Are they different from
                the market participants in the traditional securities
                market? If yes, please elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 46 of 55
Question 2.3.5   What are the key functions of market participants Page 22
Question 2.3.6   in a digital token market for real-world assets? Are
                 they different from the functions of respective
Question 2.3.7   market participants in the traditional securities
Question 2.3.8   market? If yes, please elaborate.
Question 2.3.9   What are the key regulatory requirements that Page 23
Question 2.3.10  need to be imposed on market participants in a
                 digital token market for real-world assets? Are
                 they different from the regulatory requirements
                 imposed on respective market participants in the
                 traditional securities market? If yes, please
                 elaborate.
                 What are the various factors which determine the Page 23
                 level of public trust and investor confidence in a
                 market?
                 Should market infrastructure be categorised into Page 24
                 Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based and
                 non-DLT based categories? Is there any other
                 manner of categorising the market infrastructure
                 for the purposes of differentiated regulatory
                 treatment? If yes, please elaborate on the same.
                 Do you agree with the view that Distributed Ledger Page 24
                 Technology (DLT) based market infrastructure
                 should be accorded differentiated regulatory
                 treatment as compared to non-DLT based market
                 infrastructure? What are relevant reasons for such
                 a differentiation?
                 What are the characteristics/ features of Page 25
                 Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT), which
                 warrant a differentiated regulatory treatment of
                 market infrastructure? What are the associated

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 47 of 55
                           limitations and risks that need to be addressed in
                           this regard?
Question 2.3.11a.1 In the case of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) Page 25
                           based market infrastructure, is there a need to
                           redefine the processes of clearing and settlement?
                           If yes, please elaborate.
Question 2.3.11a.2 What are the inherent risks and limitations of Page 26
                           automatic clearing and settlement of trades in a
                           Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based
                           market infrastructure?
Question 2.3.11a.3 What are the major hurdles to ensuring legal and Page 26
                           regulatory certainty to transactions effected by
                           smart contracts on Distributed Ledger Technology
                           (DLT) based market infrastructure?
Question 2.3.11b.1 In the case of Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) Page 26
                           based market infrastructure, is there a need to
                           redefine the processes of issuance and custody? If
                           yes, please elaborate.
Question 2.3.11b.2 What are the inherent risks and limitations of Page 27
                           issuance and custody of digital tokens on a
                           Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based
                           market infrastructure?
Question 2.3.11c.1 What are the various market participants involved Page 28
                           in a Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based
                           digital token market for real-world assets? Are
                           they different from the market participants in a
                           non-DLT based digital token market? If yes, please
                           elaborate.
Question 2.3.11c.2 What are the key functions of market participants Page 28
                           involved in a Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT)
                           based digital token market for real-world assets?

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 48 of 55
                Are they different from the functions of respective

                market participants in a non-DLT based digital

                token market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 2.3.11c.3 What are the key regulatory requirements that Page 28

                need to be imposed on market participants in a

                Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) based digital

                token market for real-world assets? Are they

                different from the regulatory requirements

                imposed on respective market participants in a

                non-DLT based digital token market? If yes, please

                elaborate.

Question 2.3.11d.1 What are the characteristics of a Distributed Page 29

                Ledger that have a significant bearing on their

                suitability for market infrastructure?

Question 2.3.11d.2 Do you agree with the view that certain Page 29

                characteristics of Distributed Ledgers impact the

                form and magnitude of risks they pose, when

                employed in a digital token market? What are the

                relevant characteristics of Distributed Ledgers and

                their respective risks which need regulatory

                consideration?

Question 2.3.11d.3 What are the possible regulatory requirements Page 29

                that may be considered for addressing the risks

                emanating from the use of different types of

                Distributed Ledgers in a digital token market?

Question Set 3: Evolving an appropriate Risk Management Framework for Digital

Tokens

Question No.                    Question                              Reference

Question 3.a.1  What are the key governance risks in market Page 31

                infrastructure institutions and market participants

                in a digital token market for real-world assets? Are

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets         Page 49 of 55
Question 3.a.2  they different from the governance risks in
Question 3.a.3  respective institutions in the traditional securities
Question 3.b.1  market? If yes, please elaborate.
Question 3.b.2  What are the possible regulatory requirements Page 31
Question 3.b.3  that may be imposed on market infrastructure
Question 3.b.4  institutions and market participants, so as to
                ensure good standards of corporate governance?
                What are the possible conflicts of interest for Page 31
                various market participants in the digital token
                market? What possible regulatory measures may
                be imposed on the market participants to address
                the same?
                What are the key technology risks in market Page 32
                infrastructure institutions and market participants
                in a digital token market? Are they different from
                the technology risks in respective institutions in
                the traditional securities market? If yes, please
                elaborate.
                What are the possible regulatory requirements Page 32
                that may be imposed on market infrastructure
                institutions and market participants, so as to
                adequately limit technology risks?
                Do you agree that use of Distributed Ledger Page 33
                Technology (DLT) and Smart Contracts by market
                infrastructure institutions and market participants
                changes the form and magnitude of technology
                risks posed to the digital token market? If yes,
                please elaborate.
                What are the possible regulatory requirements Page 33
                that may be imposed on market infrastructure
                institutions and market participants using

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 50 of 55
Question 3.c.1  Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) and Smart
Question 3.c.2  Contracts, so as to adequately address the
Question 3.c.3  technology risks arising from the same?
Question 3.c.4  What are the key cyber risks in market Page 34
Question 3.d.1  infrastructure institutions and market participants
                in a digital token market? Are they different from
                the cyber risks in respective institutions in the
                traditional securities market? If yes, please
                elaborate.
                What are the possible regulatory requirements Page 34
                that may be imposed on market infrastructure
                institutions and market participants, so as to
                adequately limit cyber risks?
                Do you agree that the use of Distributed Ledger Page 34
                Technology (DLT) and Smart Contracts by market
                infrastructure institutions and market participants
                changes the form and magnitude of cyber risks
                posed to the digital token market? If yes, please
                elaborate.
                What are the possible regulatory requirements Page 34
                that may be imposed on market infrastructure
                institutions and market participants using
                Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) and Smart
                Contracts, so as to adequately address the cyber
                risks arising from the same?
                What are the key Money Laundering/ Terrorist Page 35
                Financing (ML/TF) risks posed by a digital token
                market? Are they different from the ML/TF risks in
                the traditional securities market? If yes, please
                elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 51 of 55
Question 3.d.2  What are the possible regulatory requirements Page 35

                that may be imposed on market infrastructure

                institutions and market participants, so as to

                adequately limit Money Laundering/ Terrorist

                Financing (ML/TF) risks?

Question 3.d.3  Do you agree that the use of Distributed Ledger Page 36

                Technology (DLT) and Smart Contracts by market

                infrastructure institutions and market participants

                changes the form and magnitude of Money

                Laundering/ Terrorist Financing (ML/TF) risks

                posed by the digital token market? If yes, please

                elaborate.

Question 3.d.4  What are the possible regulatory requirements Page 36

                that may be imposed on market infrastructure

                institutions and market participants using

                Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) and Smart

                Contracts, so as to adequately address the Money

                Laundering/ Terrorist Financing (ML/TF) risks

                arising from the same?

Question Set 4: Providing suitable catalysts for organic growth and development

of the Digital Tokens market

Question No.                  Question                               Reference

Question 4.a.1  What are the key investor protection concerns in a Page 38

                digital token market? Are they different from the

                investor protection concerns in the traditional

                securities market? If yes, please elaborate.

Question 4.a.2  What are the key investor education/ awareness Page 39

                concerns in a digital token market? Are they

                different from the investor education/ awareness

                concerns in the traditional securities market? If

                yes, please elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets        Page 52 of 55
Question 4.a.3  What are the key disclosures to be made by market Page 39
Question 4.a.4  infrastructure institutions and market participants
                in the digital token market for ensuring investor
Question 4.a.5  protection and awareness? Are they different from
Question 4.a.6  the disclosures being made in the traditional
Question 4.b.1  securities market? If yes, please elaborate.
Question 4.b.2  What are the key due diligence requirements to be Page 39
                imposed on market participants in the digital token
                market for ensuring investor protection and
                awareness? Are they different from the due
                diligence requirements on the market participants
                in the traditional securities market? If yes, please
                elaborate.
                What are the suitable avenues for grievance Page 39
                redressal that may be provided to investors in a
                digital token market? Are they different from the
                grievance redressal mechanisms in the traditional
                securities market? If yes, please elaborate.
                Are there any other suitable measures for Page 40
                furthering the cause of investor protection and
                awareness in the digital token market? If yes,
                please elaborate.
                Do you agree that industry-level associations and Page 40
                bodies are well suited to develop best practices and
                common standards for the participants in the
                digital token market? Please give reasons
                supporting your opinion.
                Do you agree that market participants in the digital Page 40
                token market are well suited to evolve a Code of
                Advertising/ Code of Marketing for themselves?
                Please give reasons supporting your opinion.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 53 of 55
Question 4.b.3  Do you agree that market participants in the digital Page 41
Question 4.b.4  token market are well suited to evolve a Code of
Question 4.c.1  Conduct/ Code of Ethics for themselves? Please
Question 4.c.2  give reasons supporting your opinion.
Question 4.c.3  Are self-regulatory organizations or industry-level Page 41
Question 4.c.4  associations well suited for enforcing the best
                practices and common standards evolved for
                market participants in the digital asset domain?
                Please give reasons supporting your opinion.
                What are the suitable avenues for imposing a Page 41
                disclosure-based regime on the market
                infrastructure institutions and market participants
                in the digital token market? Please elaborate.
                Do you agree that sandbox approach is useful for Page 42
                lowering the compliance burden and fostering
                innovation in the digital token market? Please give
                reasons supporting your opinion.
                What are other possible measures that may be Page 42
                adopted for lowering the compliance burden on
                the market infrastructure institutions and market
                participants in the digital token market? Please
                elaborate.
                What are other possible measures that may be Page 42
                adopted for fostering innovation in the digital
                token market? Please elaborate.

Regulatory Approach towards Tokenization of Real-World Assets  Page 54 of 55
