        International Financial Services Centres Authority (Payment Services) Regulations, 20241
                                                                                                [As amended upto 2nd April, 2024]

In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 12 read with sub-section 1 of section 28
of the International Financial Services Centres Authority Act, 2019 (50 of 2019), the International
Financial Services Centres Authority hereby makes the following regulations namely: -

                                                               Chapter I
                                                             Preliminary
Short title and commencement
1. (1) These regulations may becalled the International Financial Services Centres Authority (Payment
Services) Regulations, 2024.
   (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
Definitions
2. (1) In these regulations, unlessthe context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall bear the
   meanings as assigned to thembelow, and their cognate expressions shall beconstrued accordingly -
             (a) “account issuance service” means any of the following services:
                          i. the service of issuing apayment account to apayment service user;

                         ii. theservice required for operating apayment account, and includes:

                                      a) the service (other than a cross‑border money transfer service) that
                                          enables money to be placedin apayment account; or

                                      b) the service (other than a cross‑border money transfer service) that
                                          enables money to bewithdrawn fromapayment account;

             (b) “Act” meanstheInternational Financial ServicesCentres Authority Act, 2019 (50of 2019);
             (c) “agent” means any person who acts on behalf of a payment service provider in relation to

                  thepayment services provided by him;
             (d) “applicable funds” means-

                 i. funds received by a payment service provider from, or for the benefit of, a payment
                       service user for the execution of a payment transaction; and

1 Vide Notification No. IFSCA/GN/2024/001, dated 29th J anuary, 2024 published in the Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, P art III, Sec.4, vide No. 66, dated 29th J anuary, 2024 (w.e.f. 30.01.2024).

                                                                                                       1
                ii. fundsreceivedby apayment serviceprovider fromanother payment serviceprovider
                       for the execution of a payment transaction on behalf of apayment service user;

             (e) “Authority” meanstheInternational Financial Services Centres Authority established
                  under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Act;

             (f) “certificate of authorisation” means the certificate containing the details of the authorisation
                  granted by theAuthority to apayment service provider under regulation 10;

             (g) “company” means a company as defined in sub-section 20of section 2 of the Companies
                  Act, 2013 (18of 2013);

             (h) “control” means control as defined in sub-section 27 of section 2 of theCompanies Act,
                  2013 (18 of 2013)

             (i) “cross‑border money transfer service” means either of the following services:

                          i. accepting money from aperson in IFSC, whether as principal or agent, for the
                                purpose of transmitting, or arranging for the transmission of, the money to any
                                person outside IFSC;

                         ii. receiving money from a person outside IFSC or arranging for the receipt of
                                money from a person outside IFSC whether as principal or agent, for the
                                purpose of transmitting or arranging for the transmission of the money to any
                                personin IFSC or any personoutsideIFSC.;

             (j) “e‑money” means any electronically stored monetary value that —

                          i. is denominated in any specified foreign currency;
                         ii. has been paid for in advance to enable the making of payment transactions

                                through the use of a payment account;
                        iii. is accepted by a person other than its issuer; and
                        iv. represents aclaimon its issuer.

                       Explanation: The term “e-money” doesnot includedeposit from any person.

             (k) “e-money issuance service” means the service of issuing e-money to a payment service
                  user for the purpose of allowing apayment service user to makepayment transactions;

             (l) 2[“escrow service” means the service provided by a payment service provider, under an
                  agreement, wherebymoneyisheldbysuchpaymentserviceproviderinanescrow account
                  with an IFSC Banking Unit (‘IBU’) or an IFSC Banking Company (‘IBC’) for and on
                  behalf of one or more parties that are in theprocess of completing atransaction;]

             (m) ‘group entities’ means an arrangement involving two or more entities related to each other
                  through any of the following relationships: (i) subsidiary – parent (as defined in Ind-AS
                  110/Accounting Standard 21); (ii) joint venture (as defined in Ind-AS 28/Accounting

2 Substituted vide Notification No. IFSCA/GN/2024/002 dated 2nd April, 2024. Before substitution, it stood as under:
"(l) “escrow service” means the service provided by a payment service provider, under an agreement, whereby
money is held by such payment service provider in an escrow account with an IFSC Banking Unit (‘IBU’) or an
IFSC Banking Company (‘IBC’) on behalf of two parties that are in the process of completing a transaction;"

                                                                                                       2
     Standard 27); (iii) associate (as defined in Ind-AS 28/Accounting Standard 23); (iv)
     common brand name or (v) investment in equity shares of 20 per cent and above;

(n) “holding company”, means a company as defined in sub-section 46 of section 2 of the
     Companies Act, 2013(18 of 2013);

(o) “IFSC” or “International Financial Services Centre” shall have themeaning assigned to it
     in clause(g) of sub-section (1) of section 3of theAct;

(p) “key managerial personnel” shall have the meaning assigned to it in sub-section 50 of
     section2of theCompaniesAct, 2013(18of 2013) andanyotherpersonwhomthepayment
     serviceprovider may declareaskey managerial personnel;

(q) “merchant” means and includes all persons, in or outsideIFSC, who accept payments for
     goods and services provided by them, through electronic/onlinepayment modes;

(r) “merchant acquisition service” means any service of accepting and processing a payment
     transaction for amerchant under an agreement between thepayment service provider and
     themerchant, whichresultsinatransfer of moneytothemerchantpursuantto thepayment
     transaction, regardlessof whether the payment service provider comes into possession of
     any money in respect of the payment transaction;

(s) “money” includes e-money but excludes virtual digital asset and any excluded digital
     representation of value as may be specified by theAuthority.

(t) “nodal bank” means an IFSC Banking Unit (‘IBU’) or anIFSC BankingCompany (‘IBC')
     identified by a payment service provider for maintenance of security deposits, if so
     specified by the Authority, or for holding of funds in escrow account or for any other
     purposes.

(u) “nth-party service provider” means aservice provider that is part of a third- party service
     provider’s supply chain and supports the ultimate delivery of services to one or more
     payment service providers;

(v) “payment account” means an account orfacility(eitherinphysical orelectronicform) held
     in thename of one or more payment service users and is used for initiation of a payment
     order or execution of payment transactions or both;

     Explanation : The term “payment account” includes bank account, debit card, credit card
     and charge card.

(w) “payment instrument” means any written direction, personalised device or set of
     procedures through which a payment service user initiates a payment order;

(x) “payment order” means any instruction by a payment service user to the payment service
     provider requesting theexecution of a payment transaction;

(y) “payment services” means any of the activities that is specified in Part A of Schedule I of
     theseregulations but does not includeactivities specified in Part B of Schedule I of these
     regulations;

(z) “payment service provider” means a company authorised by the Authority, under these
     regulations, to provide one or more of the Payment Services;

                                                                                  3
         (aa) “payment service user” means any person, in IFSC or outside IFSC, that makes useof a
              Payment Service provided by a Payment Service Provider in thecapacity of a payer or a
              payee, or both;

         (ab)“payment system” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (i) of sub-section (1) of
              section 2 of Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 (51 of 2007);

         (ac) “payment transaction” means the act of placing, transfer or withdrawal of money, whether
              for the purpose of paying for goods or services or for any other purpose, with or without
              any underlying obligations between thepayer and payee;

         (ad) “regular payment service provider” means a Payment Service Provider, authorised under
              regulation 10 of these regulations, other than significant payment service provider;

         (ae) “safeguarding institution” means an IFSC Banking Unit (‘IBU’) or an IFSC Banking
              Company(‘IBC’), as defined in clause (ec) and (eb), respectively, of sub-regulation (1) of
              regulation 2 of the International Financial Services Centres (Banking) Regulations, 2020.

         (af) “significant payment service provider” means any Payment Service Provider, who is
              designated as such under sub-regulation 4 of regulation 4 of these regulations;

         (ag) “specified foreign currency” means the currencies specified in the First Schedule of the
              International Financial Services Centres Authority (Banking) Regulations, 2020 or any
              other regulation issuedby theAuthority;

         (ah) “subsidiary” means a company as defined in sub-section 87of section 2 of the Companies
              Act, 2013 (18of 2013);

         (ai) “third-party service provider” means any person that provides services to one or more
              Payment Service Provider either directly or indirectly as part of the supply chain of another
              service provider;

         (aj) “third-party service relationship” means a formal arrangement for the provision of one or
              more services, or parts thereof, in the form of activities, functions, processes and tasks, to
              a Payment Service Provider by a third party including:

                     i) arrangements for the provision of services to a Payment Service Provider by an
                         intra-group service provider;

                     ii) services supporting transactions between a Payment Service Provider with their
                         employees, customers or counterparties

          (ak) “virtual digital asset” shall have the meaning assigned to it in sub-section 47A of section
              2 of theIncomeTax Act, 1961(43 of 1961);

(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act or A cts
mentioned in theFirst Schedule to the Act or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or any rules or
regulationsmadethereunder shall havethesamemeaningsrespectivelyassignedtotheminthoseActs,
rulesor regulations or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as thecasemay be.

                                                                                                 4
                                                              Chapter II

                                      Authorisation to Payment Service Providers

Requirement of authorisation for commencing or carrying on Payment Services
3. Any person seeking to provide Payment Services in or from IFSC shall require certificate of

   authorisation under theseregulations.

Application for authorisation for providing Payment Services
4. (1) Any person desirous of providing Payment Services in or from IFSC (hereinafter referred to as
“the Applicant”) shall submit an application to the Authority, for grant of authorisation as a Payment
Service Provider, in theformat and in themanner as may be specified by theAuthority;
Provided that the persons specified in Schedule IV of these regulations shall be exempted from the
requirement of obtaining authorisation under these regulations.

   (2) Theapplication under sub-regulation (1) shall beaccompanied by anon-refundable application fee
as may bespecified by theAuthority.

  (3) A person authorised as aPayment ServiceProvider may provideoneor more of Payment Services,
as specified in Part A of theSchedule I to theseregulations.

  (4) Notwithstandingsub-regulation (3), aperson shall bedesignated as aSignificant Payment Service
Provider, if in addition to satisfying the condition of sub-regulation (3), it satisfies the conditions in Part
C of Schedule I to theseregulations.

Legal form

5. An Applicant making an application for authorisation under regulation 4 shall be required to be
incorporated as aCompany with its registeredofficein IFSC.

Minimum Net worth requirement

6. (1) A Payment ServiceProvider shall, inter-alia, comply with theminimumnet worth requirements,
as specified in Schedule V of theseregulations, on an ongoingbasis.

   (2) The minimum net worth requirement of a Payment Service Provider shall be reviewed by the
Authority fromtime to time to ensure their continued effectiveness and relevance and theAuthority may
also make adjustments to the minimumnet worth requirements as needed to address emerging risks and
changes in the financial landscape in which the Payment Service Provider is operating.

   (3) Requirement of additional net worth, if any, as a result of the review undertaken under sub-
regulation (2), shall be satisfied by a Payment Service Provider, within 180 days from the date of
communication by the Authority about the additional net worth requirement.

   (4) TheAuthority may establish aframework for prompt corrective action in casethenet worth of a
Payment ServiceProvider falls below therequirements specified in sub-regulation (1) and (2) above.

   (5) TheAuthority may require a Payment Service Provider to undertake stress tests on their net worth
to assess their ability to withstand adverse economic scenarios.

Fit and Proper requirement

                                                                                                       5
7. (1) An Applicant or a Payment Service Provider shall ensure that its directors, Key Managerial
Personnel and persons exercising control over it (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Relevant
Persons”) satisfy the “fit and proper requirements” (‘FPR’), specified in ScheduleII of theseregulations.

   (2) TheAuthority may undertakean evaluation of any Relevant Person(s) under the FPR during the
time of processing the request for authorisation as a Payment Service Provider or any time thereafter.

    (3) Incaseof anyvarianceintheoutcomeof theevaluationundertheFPR undertakenbyanApplicant
or a Payment Service Provider and that undertaken by the Authority, the outcome of the evaluation
undertaken by theAuthority shall prevail.

Authorisation requirements

8. While evaluating an application under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4, theAuthority shall take into
account all matters which it deems relevant for grant of authorisation, including, whether:

         a. Relevant persons of the Applicant possess adequate experience, including an existing
              authorisation to provide similar services in any other jurisdiction, in the activities that it seeks
              to provide as a Payment Service Provider;

         b. the applicant possesses the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, equipment,
              communication facilities and manpower to effectively discharge its activities;

         c. theApplicant satisfies thenet worth requirement, as specified in theseregulations;

         d. thefinancial soundness of the Applicant;

         e. theApplicant and Relevant Persons satisfy the “fit and proper” requirements;

         f. theApplicant or its GroupEntities have in thepast been refused authorisation by the Authority
              and if so, the ground for such refusal;

         g. theApplicant or the Relevant Persons are not subject to any proceeding for breach of law by
              theAuthority; and

         h. the interests of Payment Services Users, including the terms and conditions governing their
              relationship with a Payment Service Provider shall be adequately protected if such
              authorisation is granted.

Issuance of in-principle approval

9. (1) A fter considering an application for authorisation, if the Authority is satisfied that the said
application, prima facie, satisfies the conditions for granting authorisation, the Authority may issue an
“in-principle approval” letter to theApplicant and shall require the Applicant to satisfy such conditions
as may be specified by theAuthority in the “in-principle approval” letter before grant of authorisation.

   (2) Grant of authorisation toan Applicant whohas been issued “in-principle approval” shall be at the
sole discretion of the Authority and the issue of “in-principle approval” by the Authority shall not
automatically entitle the Applicant to be granted an authorisation under regulation 10.

   (3) The Applicant shall intimate to the Authority about any change of ownership or control of the
Applicant during the period when an “in-principle approval” is in force.

                                                                                                       6
   (4) TheAuthority, after receipt of intimation under sub-regulation (3) or whenit otherwisebecomes
aware of any changeof ownership or control of the Applicant to whoman “in-principle approval” has
been issued, shall undertake a review of its decision to grant “in-principle approval” to theApplicant.

   (5) The outcome of the review undertaken at sub-regulation (4) shall be communicated to the
Applicant.

   (6) If as a result of the review under sub-regulation (4), the Authority decides to revoke the “in-
principle approval” granted to the Applicant, the Authority shall provide a reasonable opportunity of
hearing to theApplicant before takinga final decision in thematter.

Grant of authorisation

10. (1) The Authority may, on being satisfied that the Applicant has complied with theconditions laid
down in these regulations and is eligible to act as a Payment Service Provider, grant a Certificate of
Authorisation totheApplicant subject to suchconditionsastheAuthority may deemfit.

     (2) The Certificate of Authorisation granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid unless revoked
by theAuthority or surrendered by thePayment ServiceProvider.

     (3) Every application for authorisation shall beprocessed by theAuthority as soon as possible and
an endeavour shall be made to dispose of such application within six months from the date of filing such
application.

    (4) TheAuthority may, if it so desires, either at thetimeof grant of authorisation or at any other time
thereafter, require a Payment Service Provider to maintain security deposit of such amount and in such
form as may bespecified by theAuthority.

    (5) A Payment ServiceProvider shall identify an IFSC Banking Unit or an IFSC Banking Company
asitsNodal BankandintimatethesametotheAuthorityalongwithaconcurrenceof thesaidbankto act
as the “Nodal Bank” as part of the requirement under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 10.

     (6) The Payment Service Provider shall, at any time after the grant of authorisation under sub-
regulation (1), intimate to the Authority of any material change in the information or particulars
previously furnished.

     (7) The Authority may modify one or more conditions for commencing or carrying on Payment
Servicesunder theseregulations.

Refusal of Authorisation: -

11. (1) If the Authority is of the opinion that the authorisation cannot be granted due to certain
deficiencies, it shall communicatethesameto theApplicant advisingit to rectify thosewithin thirty days
from thedateof communication.

     (2) If the Applicant fails to rectify such deficiencies within the specified time, the Authority shall
refuseto grant authorisation and communicatethesameto theApplicant.

Provided that no such refusal shall be made without giving the Applicant a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.

     (3) The application filed under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 of these regulations, may be
withdrawn by theApplicant at any time before thegrant of authorisation.

     (4) TheApplicant whoseapplication is refused under sub-regulation (2) aboveor withdrawn under
sub-regulation (3) above, may submit a fresh application for authorisation after a period of six months

                                                                                                       7
fromthedateof communication of refusal of theapplication by theAuthority under sub-regulation (2) or
thedateof withdrawal of the application under sub-regulation (3).

Revocation of authorisation

12. (1) If theAuthority is satisfied that aPayment ServiceProvider has failed tocomply with any of the
conditions of theauthorisation, provision/s of theseregulations, orders or directions of theAuthority, or
thattheactivityof thePaymentServiceProviderisbeingcarriedoninamannerprejudicial totheinterests
of thePayment Service Users, it may revoketheauthorisation grantedto suchPayment ServiceProvider

    (2) Theorder for revocation of theauthorisation shall beissued after givingareasonableopportunity
of hearing to theconcerned Payment Service Provider.

Surrender of Authorisation

13. (1) A Payment Service Provider may file an application with the Authority, in compliancewith the
conditionsand in theformat provided in ScheduleIII, for surrender of theauthorisation granted toit.

     (2) After consideration of theapplication madeunder sub-regulation (1), andon being satisfied that
thesurrender of authorisation is unlikely to causeany material adverse effect to the financial ecosystem
of the IFSC or the interests of the Payment Service Users, the Authority may permit surrender of such
authorisation subject to such conditions as it deems fit.

     (3) The Authority may, by an order in writing, specify the date from which the authorisation shall
cease to have effect.

Appropriation of security deposit on revocation or surrender of authorisation

14.(1) Where a Payment Service Provider has surrendered its authorisation or the authorisation of a
Payment Service Provider has been revoked by the Authority, the Authority may apply the security
deposit, if any, mentionedinsub-regulation(4) of regulation10, topayanysumsoutstandingandclaimed
by Payment Service Users who are customers of the Payment Service Provider.

     (2) Where a Payment Service Provider has surrendered its authorisation or the authorisation of a
Payment Service Provider has been revoked by the Authority, the Authority shall release the security
deposit, if any, mentioned in sub-regulation (4) of regulation 10 or any balance thereof if it is satisfied
that:

         (a) there is no outstanding claimby any Payment ServiceUser who is acustomer of thePayment
         Service Provider; and

         (b) the Payment Service Provider has satisfied all conditions for surrender of authorisation under
         these regulations.

   (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, in order to meet any legitimate outstanding
claimor dues, the security deposit shall bereleasedafter a period of oneyear from the date of approval
for surrender of authorisation or revocation of authorisation by Authority.

                                                             Chapter III

                                                Commencement of operations

15. (1) ThePayment Service Provider shall commenceits operations within six months from thedateof
issuanceof Certificateof Authorisation.

                                                                                                       8
     (2) ThePayment Service Provider may submit an application for extension of time, if instructed to
do so by way of a resolution passed by its board of directors, for commencing operations at least two
months before the latest dateof commencement as stipulated under sub-regulation (1).

      (3) The application under sub-regulation (2) shall, inter-alia, includecompletedetailsof thereasons
behind the request for extension, duration of extension sought, steps being undertaken to overcome the
delay and any other information which, in the opinion of the Payment Service Provider, is relevant to the
request for extension.

     (4) On receipt of theapplication under sub-regulation (2), if theAuthority is satisfied that Payment
Service Provider cannot commence its operation within stipulated time period, it may extend the time
period by such further period, as it thinks fit, but not exceeding three (3) months:

Provided that any extension of thetime period under this regulation shall not begranted more than once.

                                                             Chapter IV

                                                             Governance

Governance arrangements

16. (1) A Payment Service Provider shall comprehensively and clearly document its governance
arrangements i.e., theframework under which its Board and senior management shall function.

     (2) The governance arrangements shall, at minimum, includethe following components namely:

            a. role and composition of theBoard and any committees or sub-committees;
            b. senior management structure;
            c. reporting linesbetween management and theBoard;
            d. ownership structure;
            e. internal governance policy;
            f. design of risk management and internal controls;
            g. procedures for the appointment of board members and senior management;
            h. processes for ensuring performance accountability.

       (3) A Payment Service Provider shall not undertake activities other than providing Payment
Services without theprior permission of the Authority and subject to suchconditions as may bespecified
by the Authority

       Provided that the Authority may, by general or special permission, permit a Payment Service
provider to carry out activities other than providing Payment Services

       (4) A Financial institution, set up as acompany and authorised by theAuthority under applicable
regulatory framework, may seek authorisation to act as a Payment Service Provider under these
regulations.

       (5) A Payment Service Provider shall formulate clear andcomprehensive rules and procedures for
the Payment Services provided by it and shall provide sufficient information to enable Payment Service
Users to have an accurate understanding of the risks, fees and other material costs they shall incur by
availing such Payment Service(s).

17. (1) A Payment Service Provider shall develop a policy for management of risks including risk
management policies, procedures, and systems that enable it to identify, measure, monitor, and manage
the range of risks that arise in or are borne by it while providing payment service(s). Such policy shall be
subject to periodic review by the Board of the Payment Service Provider.

                                                                                                       9
       (2) A Payment Service Provider shall establish a robust operational risk-management framework
with appropriate systems, policies, procedures, and controls to identify, monitor, and manageoperational
risks.

       (3) A Payment Service Provider that establishes alink, with oneor more Payment Systems, shall
identify, monitor and manage link-related risks.

                                                              Chapter V

                               Risk management of third-party service relationships

Identification of critical services and assessment of criticality

18. (1) A PaymentServiceProvider shall put in placearisk-based framework to assess thecriticality of
services that they receive or plan to receive from a Third-party Service Provider.

     (2) Such assessment shall be undertaken at the time of commencement of operations and at regular
intervals thereafter to identify critical services.

     (3) Theframework under sub-regulation (1) shall consider various factors relevant to identifying a
service as “critical” including:

            a. the financial, operational and strategic importance of the service to the Payment Service
                  Provider.

            b. thelevel of tolerancefor disruption acceptable to thePayment Service Provider regarding
                  critical business operations that rely or plan to rely on the Third-party Service Provider.

            c. the nature of any data or information shared by the Payment Service Provider with the
                  Third-party ServiceProvider under aServiceRelationship.

            d. the ease of substitutability of a service or lack thereof.

Onboarding and ongoing monitoring

19. (1) A Payment ServiceProvider shall conduct appropriateplanning andduediligencebeforeentering
into a Third-Party Service Relationship arrangement for a critical service while ensuring that the level of
duediligenceis proportionate to thecriticality of therelevantservice.

       (2) Factors that are to be considered in theduediligenceprocess shall, inter-alia, include:

            a. Operational and technical capability and track record, including (if applicable) drawing on
                  any prior engagement between thePayment Service Provider and the Third-party Service
                  Provider (in general or in connection with the service to be provided);

            b. Financial soundness of the Third-party Service Provider to the extent it can affect the
                  delivery of its services;

            c. Internal controlsandriskmanagement,includingtheThird-party Service Provider’s ability
                  to manageInformation and Communications Technology (ICT), cyber security and other
                  operational risks;

            d. Management of supply chain risks, including use and oversight of Nth-Party Service
                  Providers;

            e. Geographic dependencies and management of related risks;

                                                                                                      10
            f. Key personnel involvedin thedelivery of therelevant service and their competency;

            g. Potential conflicts of interest;

            h. Existence of any recent or pending relevant complaints, investigations or litigation against
                  the Third-party Service Provider and (if relevant) Nth-Party Service Providers;

            i. Ability to deliver thecritical servicein away that allows the Payment ServiceProvider to
                  comply with its legal and regulatory obligations;

            j. Ability tosupport the Payment Service Provider’s business strategy and plans;

            k. Level of substitutability of theserviceandThird-party ServiceProvider.
       (3) The services being received by a Payment Service Provider shall be procured through legally
binding arrangements between the Payment Service Provider and a Third-party Service Provider.
       (4) Thelegal arrangementsunder sub-regulation (3), shall, inter-alia, include a provision of sharing
of information by theThird-party serviceprovider with theAuthority.
       (5) A Payment Service Provider shall establish processes for ongoing monitoring of the Third-party
Service Provider’s ability to deliver the critical services in line with its contractual obligations.
Exit strategies
20. (1) A Payment Service Provider shall identify, document and to theextent practically feasible, test
their strategy for exiting Third-party Service Relationship involving critical services.
      (2) Such strategy shall cover arangeof scenarios including planned migration of services, but also
include adverse events like:

         (a) Violation or breach of applicable laws, regulations or contractual terms;
        (b) Deterioration in the quality of the services provided;
         (c) Weaknesses in the Third-party Service Provider’s governance, financial condition, resilience
         or risk management that could reasonably impact thedelivery of critical services;
         (d) Extended disruption to critical services that cannot be managed through other business
         continuity measures.
Reporting of incidents
21. ThePayment Service Provider shall require the Third-party ServiceProviders to have clearly defined
processes for identifying, investigating, remediating and notifying Payment Service Provider in a timely
mannerof incidentsthatimpacttheThird-partyServiceProvider’s ability to deliver agreed-upon services.
Record of third-party service relationships
22. The Payment Service Provider shall maintain complete, up-to-date records of their Third-Party
Service Relationship that are identified under sub-regulation 1 of regulation 18.

                                                             Chapter VI
                                         Duties of the Payment Service Provider
Duty to protect Applicable Funds:

                                                                                                      11
23. (1) The Payment Service Provider shall safeguard Applicable Funds including but not limited to
compliancewith thedirectionsspecified in Schedule VI.

    (2) ThePayment ServiceProvider shall at all times, keep Applicable Funds segregated from any other
types of funds that it holds.

Duty to comply with International Financial Services Centres Authority (Anti Money Laundering,
Counter-Terrorist Financing and Know Your Customer) Guidelines, 2022 (AML, CTF &KYC
Guidelines)

24. (1) ThePayment ServiceProvider shall ensurecompliancewith AML,CTF & KY C Guidelines and
other provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002and theRules madethereunder including
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force.

      (2) The Payment Service Provider using agents for providing its services shall:

                  a) maintain an up-to-date list of such agents;

                  b) includesuchagentsin their AML/CTF programmes andmonitor themfor compliance
                       with theseprogrammes.

      (3) A Payment Service Provider shall be responsible and accountable for the transactions/actions
undertaken by their authorised agents.

      (4) A Payment Service Provider shall maintain alog of all the transactions undertaken for at least
ten years. This data shall bemadeavailable for scrutiny to the Authority or any other agency / agencies
asmay bedirectedby theAuthority.

Duty to comply with laws

25. The Payment Service Provider shall comply with all applicable laws in India as well all applicable
laws of any jurisdiction/s outside India where it provides services or where the Payment Service Users
are based.

Duty of co-operation with the Authority

26. (1) A Payment ServiceProvider shall deal with the Authority in an open and co‐operative manner. A
Payment Service Provider shall keep theAuthority duly informed of any significant event(s) relating to
the Payment Service Provider.

    (2) Any proposedmajor change, suchaschangein product features/process, structure or operation of
thepayment services, etc., shall becommunicated totheAuthority with completedetails.

     (3) A Payment Service Provider shall obtain prior approval of theAuthority before entering into any
transaction of merger, consolidation, re-organisation, scheme of arrangement or compromise with its
shareholders or effect any schemeof amalgamation or reconstruction.

    (4) TheAuthority may, for thepurposeof carrying out its functions under theseRegulation, conduct
or get conducted audits andinspections of a Payment ServiceProvider andaThird-Party ServiceProvider
and it shall be the duty of the Payment Service Provider and a Third-Party Service Provider to assist the
Authority to carry out such audit or inspection, as thecase may be.

Duty towards Payment Service Users

                                                                                                      12
27. (1) A Payment Service Provider shall ensure that due regard is given to protecting the interests of
Payment Service Users and the relevant information is communicated to themin aclear and fair manner
that minimises the possibility of them getting misled.

     (2) A Payment Service Provider shall comply with the disclosure requirements as specified in
ScheduleVII of theseregulations.

Duty to secure the information technology systems and other infrastructure

28. (1) A Payment Service Provider shall secure its information technology systems and other
infrastructure used for providing Payment Services from unauthorised access and manipulation.

    (2) A Payment ServiceProvider shall prepareandmaintain awritten document outliningthesecurity
policies and procedures put in place to fulfil the duty at sub-regulation (1).

    (3) TheAuthority may, if it feels necessary to doso, issuedirectionsto thePaymentServiceProviders
about the procedures to be followed for securing the information technology systems and other
infrastructure used for providing Payment Services.

   (4) The Authority may, if it feels necessary to do so, direct a Payment Service Provider to submit
certificate(s) issuedby independentprofessionals confirming thecompliances under sub-regulations(1)
and (2) and with the directions issued under sub-regulation (3).

Redressal of grievances and dispute resolution

29. (1) A Payment Service Provider shall depute adequate staff at its permanent place of business or
registered officein IFSC to address any queries, complaints or grievances from aPayment Service User
that uses oneor more of thepayment services provided by thePayment Service Provider and shall do so
within aperiod of thirty days fromreceipt of a complaint or agrievance.

     (2) PaymentsServiceUsersshall beprovidedwithoneormorechannels – web-based or paper-based
complaint form, IVR, mobileapplication, call centre, SMS, through branches or offices, etc. – for raising
queries and for lodging complaints and grievances.

     (3) Disputes between a Payment Service User and a Payment Service Provider, which could not be
resolvedbytheinternal grievanceredressal mechanisminsub-section(1), shall beresolvedbyharnessing
onlineconciliation and/or onlinearbitration in the manner as specified by theAuthority.

    (4) A Payment Service Provider shall maintain records regarding queries, complaints and
grievancesreceivedby it and redressal of such complaints and grievances.

Action in case of default

30. The Authority may initiate appropriate enforcement action in case a Payment Service Provider
contravenes any of theprovisions of theseregulations, direction or order madethereunder.

                                                             Chapter VII

Place of business or registered office: -

31. (1) A Payment ServiceProvider shall haveits placeof business andregisteredofficein IFSC.

     (2) A Payment ServiceProvider who wantsto carry on some activities relating to a payment service
fromaplaceof business other than fromIFSC shall seek prior approval fromtheAuthority.

                                                                                                      13
                                                            Chapter VIII
                                      Returns, Documents and Other Information
Submission of returns, documents or other information etc.
32. Every Payment Service Provider shall submit requisite documents and information in such format
and in such manner asmay bespecified by theAuthority.
Furnishing of accounts and Balance Sheet
33. Every Payment Service Provider shall submit to the Authority, a copy of the audited financial
statements,whichincludesBalance-sheet, ProfitandLossstatement,Cashor Fundflowstatementalong-
with the auditor’s report thereon within three(3) months fromthedateof its finalisation totheAuthority,
along with the remarks or observations of the auditor, if any, on the conduct of the business, state of
accounts, etc., and a suitable explanation on auditor’s observations/remarks.
Provided that the Authority may, on an application made by the Payment Service Provider, extend the
said period of three months for furnishing of returns by a further period not exceeding onemonth.
Maintenance of books of accounts, records and other documents
34. Every Payment Service Provider shall, inter-alia, maintain and preserve the following books of
accounts, records and documents, in aformat suitable for electronic retrieval, for a minimumof ten (10)
years from thedate of commencement of operations, namely: -
       (a) a copy of the balance sheet at the end of each accounting period;
       (b) acopy of profit andloss account for each accountingperiod;
       (c) a copy of the auditor’s report on the accounts for each accounting period;
       (d) a statement of net worth for each quarter;
       (e) documentation relating to compliance with International Financial Services Centres Authority
       (Anti Money Laundering, Counter-Terrorist Financing and Know Y our Customer) Guidelines,
       2022;
       (f) documents relating to account opening of each client and any power of attorney or signature
       authority forms of the clients;
       (g) relevant records and documents relating to its activities in capital markets;
       (h) such other books of accounts, records and documents as may bespecifiedby theAuthority from
       time to time.

                                                                                                      14
                                                              Schedule I
                                     Payment Services, Thresholds and Conditions

                                                [Regulation 4(3) and 4(4)]
                                                                 Part A

                                          Activities which are Payment Services
1. The following activities, except the activities specified in Part B, are Payment Services for the

       purposes of theseregulations:

       a) account issuance service (including e-money account issuanceservice);

       b) e-money issuance service;

       c) escrow service;

       d) cross border money transfer service;

       e) merchant acquisition service.

                                                                 Part B
                                        Activities which are not Payment Services
2. Thefollowing activities arenot Payment Services for thepurposes of theseregulations –

       a) paymenttransactionsonbehalf of thepayer or thepayee, if performedbyanagentauthorised
              to negotiateor conclude the sale or purchase of goods or services on behalf of the payer or
              the payee, as the case may be;

       b) paymenttransactionsbasedonanyof thefollowingdocuments, eachbeingadocumentdrawn
              on aperson with aview to placing money at thedisposal of thepayee;

              (i) cheque, cashier’s order, drawing voucher, dividend warrant, demand draft, remittance
               receipt, traveller’s cheque or gift cheque;

              (ii)paper postal order;

       c) payment transactions carried out within a payment or securities settlement system between
              Payment Service Providers and settlement agents, central counterparties, clearing houses,
              central banks or other participants in thesystem;

       d) payment transactions related to securities asset servicing, including dividends, income or
              other distributions, or redemption or sale, carried out by persons referred to in sub-paragraph
              (c);

                                                                                                      15
       e) payment transactions carried out between Payment Service Providers, or their agents or
              branch offices, for their own account;

       f) payment transactions and related services betweena Holding company and its subsidiary or
              between subsidiaries of the same Holding company, without any intermediary intervention
              by a Payment Service Provider other than Group Entities;

       g) transporting currency, including the collection, processing and delivery of the currency,
              wheretheservice is carriedon as abusiness;

       h) services provided by technical service providers, being an entity that supports the provision
              of payment services, without being in possession of the funds to betransferred at any time,
              including the services of:

              (i) processing and storageof data;

              (ii) trust and privacy protection services;

              (iii) data and entity authentication;

              (iv) informationtechnology;

              (v) communication network provision; and

              (vi) provision and maintenanceof terminals and devices used for payment services;

       i) services based on specific payment instruments that canbeused only in alimitedway and
              meet one of the following conditions:

              (i) allow the holder to acquire goods or services only in thepremises of theissuer of the
                      payment instrument;

              (ii) are issued by anissuer and allow the holder to acquire goods or services only within a
                      limitednetwork of serviceproviderswhichhavedirectcommercial agreementswiththe
                      user;

              (iii) may be used only to acquire avery limited range of goods or services;

                                                                 Part C
         Thresholds and Conditions for designation as a Significant Payment Service Provider
3. The following are the thresholds and conditions to be met by a Regular Payment Service Provider
       to bedesignated as a Significant Payment Service Provider –

         a) theRegular Payment Service Provider carries on a business of providing one or more of the
              payment services (other than e-money account issuance service) mentioned in Part A of this
              schedule and

                                                                                                      16
       (i) themonthly average, over acalendar year, of thetotal valueof all payment transactions
              that are accepted, processed, executed exceeds –
              A) $2 million (or its equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency), for any one of the
                      payment services (other than e-money account issuance service) mentioned in
                      Part A of this schedule or;
              B) $4 million (or its equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency), for two or more
                      of the payment services (other than e-money account issuance service)
                      mentioned in Part A of this schedule;

b) if the Regular Payment Service Provider intends to carry or carries on a business of
       providing an e-money account issuanceservice and
       (i) the average daily value, over a calendar year, of all e-money that is stored in any
              payment account issued by the Regular Payment Service Provider exceeds $3 million
              (or its equivalent in a specified foreign currency);

c) if the applicant or the Regular Payment Service Provider carries on a business of providing
       an e-money issuance service and
       (i) theaveragedailyvalue,overacalendaryear,of thetotal valueinonedayof all e-money
              that is intended to beissued or issued by theRegular Payment Service Provider exceeds
              $3 million (or its equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency);

                                                                                          17
                                                           SCHEDULE II
                                                   [See Regulation 7(1)]

                                         FIT AND PROPER REQUIREMENTS

1. This schedule sets out the fit and proper criteria applicable to all Relevant Persons. The Authority
   expects a Relevant Person to be competent, honest, to have integrity and to be of sound financial
   standing.

2. The criteria provided in this schedule are not meant to be exhaustive or a substitute for any legal
   provisions and are to be read in conjunction with any applicable legislation and any written
   instructions, notifications, standards, and additional guidelines that theAuthority may issuefromtime
   to time.

3. A Payment Service Provider shall establish effective systems and controls to ensure that all the
   RelevantPersons meet the ‘fit and proper’ criteria.

4. A Payment ServiceProvider shall carry out ‘fit and proper’ evaluation, in the format specified in the
   annex to this scheduleof all Relevant Persons, both at thetimeof their appointment and at reasonably
   regular frequency thereafter.

5. A Relevant Person shall bedeemedto be afit and proper person if, based on theevaluation undertaken
   under 3 or any other information available with it, aPayment ServiceProvider is satisfied -

             (a) such person has a record of fairness and integrity, including but not limited to:

                  (i) financial integrity;
                  (ii) good reputation and character; and
                  (iii) honesty.

             (b) such person has not incurred any of the following disqualifications –

                  (i) the person has been convicted by a court for any offence involving moral turpitude or
                      any economic offence or any offence against securities laws;

                  (ii) a recovery proceeding has been initiated against the person by a financial regulatory
                      authority and is pending;

                  (iii) an order for winding up has been passed against theperson for malfeasance;

                  (iv) theperson has been declaredan undischarged insolvent

                                                                                                      18
(v) an order, restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person from accessing, providing or
   dealing in financial products or financial services, has been passed by any regulatory
   authority, and a period of three (3) years from the date of the expiry of the period
   specified in theorder has not elapsed;

(vi) any other order against the person, has been passed by the Authority or any other
   regulatory authority, and aperiod of three (3) years from thedate of the order has not
   elapsed;

(vii) thepersonhasbeenfoundtobeof unsoundmindbyacourtof competentjurisdiction
   and the finding is in force;

(viii) the person is financially not sound or has been categorised as a wilful defaulter;
(ix) theperson has been declared a fugitive economic offender; or
(x) any other disqualification as may bespecified by theAuthority

                                                                        19
                                         Annex to Schedule II

   .

Sr. No.  Particulars
1        Whether any of the functionaries or any of the entities associated with the
         functionary have been refused a Registration/ Authorisation/ License by the
         Authority or any other regulatory authority or their Registration/ Authorization/
         Licensehas beensuspended at any timeprior to this application.

         (If Y es, providedetails. If No, encloseadeclaration to that effect).

         (for this clause , a person is said to be ‘associated with’ an entity if he/she is/ was
         a functionary of the entity)

2        Whether the functionary or any of thecompanies/ entities in which thefunctionary

         is/ was associated with1, is in default or have defaulted in the past in respect of

         credit facilities obtained from any entity or bank?

         (If yes, pleasefurnish information about thedefault and thename of the lending
         institution)

3        Whether any of the functionaries have been disqualified to act as promoter/

         director/ key managerial personnel under any law in any jurisdiction where the

         applicant entity or thegroup companies of the applicant entity are operating?

         If yes, pleasefurnish details.

4        Name/s of the companies, firms, partnership firms, in which any of the

         functionaries hold substantial interest.

5        Whether the Applicant/Group or any of the functionaries are/ were undergoing/

         involved in any investigation/ disciplinary action/ legal or regulatory violations/

         criminal case by any law enforcement/ regulatory agencies?

         If yes, pleasefurnish details.

6        Whetheranyorderhasbeenpassedbyanybankruptcy/ resolutionauthorityagainst

         any company/ entity with which any of thefunctionaries are/ were associated1?

         If yes, pleasefurnish details.

                                                                                        20
7   Whether any of the functionaries have been convicted by a court for any offence

    involving moral turpitude or any economic offence or any offence against

    securities laws?

    If yes, pleasefurnish details.

8   Whether a recovery proceeding hasbeen initiated against any of thefunctionaries

    by a financial regulatory authority and is pending?

    If yes, pleasefurnish details.

9   Whether an order for winding uphas beenpassed against any of thefunctionaries

    for malfeasance?

    If yes, pleasefurnish details.

10  Whether an order restraining, prohibiting or debarring any of the functionaries

    from accessing or dealing in financial products or financial services, has been

    passed by any regulatory authority/ courts, and aperiod of five years from thedate

    of the expiry of the period specified in the order has not elapsed?

    If yes, pleasefurnish details.

11  Whether any other order against any of the functionaries, which has abearing on

    thesecuritiesmarket, has beenpassedby any regulatory authority, and aperiod of

    five years from thedate of the order has not elapsed?

    If yes, pleasefurnish details.

12  Whether any of the functionaries

    i) have been declared insolvent and not discharged?

    If yes, pleasefurnish details.

                                      21
ii) havebeenfoundtobeof unsoundmindbyacourtof competentjurisdictionand
the finding is in force?
If yes, pleasefurnish details.
iii) are financially not sound or have been categorized as a wilful defaulter?
If yes, pleasefurnish details.
iv) have been declared afugitive economic offender?
If yes, pleasefurnish details.

                                                                               22
                                                          SCHEDULE III

                                                   [See Regulation 13(1)]

                                          SURRENDER OF AUTHORISATION

A. For a Payment Service Provider that has commenced operations

       1. A Payment Service Provider that has commenced operations and wishes to surrender the
            authorisation issued toit shall submit thefollowingdocumentsto theAuthority:

                  a. A request in writing by its authorised signatory alongwith acopy of the resolution of
                       its Board of Directors approving a proposal to surrender such authorisation along with
                       thereason for and intent behind such surrender.

                  b. A certificate from its Chartered Accountant about the number of customer accounts
                       and amounts held in such accounts as on the date of the resolution in 1(a). Such
                       statement should also indicate the name of its Escrow account details, outstanding
                       Escrow amount, and liabilities

                  c. A noteoutlining theprocess proposedto befollowedby thePayment ServiceProvider
                       and the timeline for extinguishing/ repaying the liabilities to the Payment Service
                       Users, Merchants or any other parties.

                  d. An undertaking duly signed, by its authorised signatory, and clearly stating that it
                       would not incur any fresh liability during the process of surrender of authorisation and
                       closing down the business.

       2. A request for surrender of authorisation shall beconsidered by theAuthority on the merits of
            the request.

       3. The Authority shall process such a request communicate its decision to the Payment Service
            Provider.

       4. TheAuthority may advisethePayment ServiceProvider to initiatecertain actions including:

                  a. IssueapublicnoticeinEnglish,Hindi andavernacularlanguage,inprint/visual media,
                       on 3 different occasions, informing the Payment Service Users / Merchants about its
                       intent to surrender its payment services provider operations. Such public notice shall,
                       inter-alia, indicate:
                          i. That the Payment Service Users may either use the balances in their e-wallets
                                or obtain refund, by credit to a bank account, within a stipulated period by
                                making a request to the Payment Service Provider.
                         ii. The manner of sending of such requests for redemption.
                        iii. Name, contact address, phone number and email id of a Nodal officer of the
                                Payment Service Provider to whom such requests are to be sent by the
                                customer.
                        iv. Timeperiodwithinwhichthecompany wouldredeemthebalanceafter receipt
                                of request from thecustomer.

                                                                                                      23
                  b. Submit a monthly progress report on the progress in extinguishing the liabilities of the
                       Payment Service Users /Merchants.

       5. On completing the process of extinguishing the liability to the Payment Service Users/
            Merchants, the Payment ServiceProvider shall submit a ‘No liability’ certificate issued by its
            statutory auditor.

       6. The Payment Service Provider shall submit the original Certificate of A uthorisation to the
            Authority for cancellation.

B. For a Payment Service Provider that has yet to commence operations
       1. A Payment Service Provider that is yet to commence operations and wishes to surrender the
            authorisation issued toit shall submit thefollowingdocumentsto theAuthority:
                  a. A request in writing by its authorised signatory alongwith acopy of theresolution of
                       its Board of Directors approving a proposal to surrender such authorisation along with
                       thereason for and intent behind such surrender.
                  b. A certificate from a Chartered Accountant to the effect that the Payment Service
                       Provider has not commenced operations for which it had received authorisation from
                       the A uthority.
                  c. Copy of thelatest audited balancesheet of the Payment Service Provider.
                       .
       2. Request for surrender of authorisation shall beconsidered by the Authority on the merits of the
            request.
       3. The Authority shall process such a request and communicate its decision to the Payment
            Service Provider.
       4. The Payment Service Provider shall submit the original Authorisation certificate to the
            Authority for cancellation.

                                                                                                      24
                                                  SCHEDULE IV
                                           [See Regulation 4 (1) ]
                        PERSONS EXEMPTED FROM AUTHORISATION
1. An IFSC Banking Company (IBC) or an IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) licensed or permissioned
     under theBankingRegulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949).
2. A person licensed to carry on the business of issuing credit cards in IFSC.
3. Any other personor class of persons, as may be specified by the Authority.

                                                                                          25
                                                   SCHEDULE V
                                            [See regulation 6(1)]
                            MINIMUM NET WORTH REQUIREMENTS
1. A Regular Payment Service Provider shall have a minimum net-worth of USD 100,000 (or
     equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency) on the date of commencement of operations. A
     Regular Payment Service Provider shall achieve a minimumnet-worth of USD 200,000 (or
     equivalent in aSpecified Foreign Currency) by theend of thethird financial year (i.e., March
     31) from the year of commencement of operations.
2. A Significant Payment Service Provider shall achievea minimumnet-worth of USD 250,000
     (or equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency) within ninety days of the date of being so
     designatedby theAuthority. A SignificantPaymentServiceProvider shall achieveaminimum
     net-worth of USD 500,000 (or equivalent in a Specified Foreign Currency) by the end of the
     third financial year (i.e., M arch 31) from the year of designation as a Significant Payment
     Service Provider.
3. Net-worth shall consist of paid-up equity capital, preference shares that are compulsorily
     convertible to equity, free reserves, balance in share premium account and capital reserves
     representing surplus arising out of sale proceeds of assets but not reserves created by
     revaluation of assets adjusted for accumulated loss balance, book valueof intangibleassetsand
     deferredrevenueexpenditure, if any. Compulsorilyconvertiblepreferencesharescanbeeither
     non-cumulative or cumulative, and they should be compulsorily convertible into equity shares
     and the shareholder agreements should specifically prohibit any withdrawal of this preference
     capital at any time.

                                                                                          26
                                                          SCHEDULE VI

                           Safeguarding of money received from Payment Service User

                                                   [See Regulation 23(1)]

(1) The directions in clause (2) below shall apply to every Regular Payment Service Provider and
SignificantPaymentServiceProvider that carries onabusinessof providingany of thefollowingpayment
services:

(a) a cross-border money transfer service;

(b) a merchant acquisition service;

(c) any other payment service that may be specified by the Authority.

(2) A Regular Payment Service Provider and aSignificant Payment ServiceProvider mentioned above,
shall ensure that no later than the next business day after any applicable funds is received from, or on
account of, a Payment Service User, thewhole or such part, as may be specified , of theapplicable funds,
is safeguarded through one of thefollowing means :

         (a) by anundertaking, from asafeguarding institution, to be fully liable to the customer for the
         applicable funds ;

         (b) by a guarantee given by a safeguarding institution for the amount of theapplicable funds ;

         (c) bydepositingtherelevantmoney inatrustaccountmaintainedwithasafeguardinginstitution;

         (d) in such other manner as may bespecified by the Authority.

(3) The directions in clause (4) below, shall apply to every Regular Payment Service Provider and
Significant Payment Service Provider that carries on a business of providing either of the following
payment services:

         (a) an e-money issuance service;

         (b) any other payment servicethat may bespecifiedby theAuthority.

(4) A Regular Payment ServiceProvider and aSignificant Payment ServiceProvider mentioned in clause
(3) above, shall ensure that from the time any applicable funds are received from, or on account of, a
customer, thewholeor such part, asmay bespecified, of therelevant money is safeguarded in oneof the
following manners:

         (a) by an undertaking, from a safeguarding institution, to be fully liable to the customer for the
         relevant money;

         (b) by a guaranteegiven by asafeguarding institution for the amount of therelevant money;

         (c) bydepositingtherelevantmoneyinatrustaccountmaintainedwithasafeguardinginstitution;

         (d) in such other manner as may bespecified by the Authority.

(5) A Regular Payment Service Provider and a Significant Payment Service Provider shall hold the
applicablefundsinanescrowaccountwithanIBU. Separateescrowaccountsshall beopenedforholding
applicablefunds pertaining to each of thepayment services listed in Part A of ScheduleI.

                                                                                                      27
(6) A Regular Payment Service Provider and aSignificant Payment Service Provider providing e-money
issuanceservice shall ensure that the balance in theassociated escrow account shall not, at theend of the
day, belowerthanthevalueofoutstandinge-moneyissuedandpaymentsduetoPaymentsServiceUsers.
(7) Credits to theescrow account shall bepermitted for amounts receivedtowards issue, load / reload of
e-money wallets and refunds received for failed / disputed / returned / cancelled transactions;
(8) Debits to the escrow accounts shall be permitted for payments to Merchants/Payment Service
Providers for the services obtained by the Payment Service User , payment to the IBU or IBC for
processing funds transfer instructions of the payment service user, payments towards applicable taxes,
refunds towards cancellation of transactions resulting in loading/reloading of balances and any other
payments dueto the Payment Service Provider as per the terms of contract entered into with the Payment
Service User.
(9) The agreement between thePayment Service Provider and theIBU maintaining escrow account shall
includea clause enabling thebank to use themoney in theescrow account only for purposes mentioned
in these regulations.
(10) A Regular Payment ServiceProvider andaSignificantPaymentServiceProvider providinge-money
issuance service shall not :

    a) issue e-money at apremiumor discount, i.e., issuee-money that has amonetary valuedifferent
         than thefunds received;

    b) usethefundscollected in exchangeof e-money issued to extendloans or financing to any person;
    c) extend credit to the customer or any other person, or pay interest, profit or any other form of

         returns on thee-money balances, that would add to themonetary valueof the e-money; and
    d) associate, link or use the e-money scheme or platform to conduct dubious or illegal activities.
    e) permit thee-money stored in e-wallets to be withdrawn in theform of cash

                                                                                                      28
                                                          SCHEDULE VII
                                           Mandatory Disclosure Requirements

                                                   [See Regulation 27(2)]

1.A PaymentServiceProvidermustprovidetheinformationthroughfollowingstatementtoall customers
and potential customers in themanner specifiedin clause2 below:

“< Name of Payment Service Provider > is authorised by the International Financial Services Centres
Authority to provide payment services . Please note that this does not mean you will be able to recover
the all the funds that you paid to the “< Name of Payment Service Provider > if the “< Name of Payment
Service Provider >’s business fails”

2. Thestatement referred to in clause1 above must :

    a. be published at least once in publicly available material issued by the Payment Service Provider;

    b. be provided to a potential customer prior to the potential customer using the payment services
         provided by the Payment Service Provider;

    c. beprovided at least once in writing to any customer where such a customer was not provided the
         statement in the manner set out in (b);

    d. not beobstructed or obscured, or embedded within other unrelated writing;

    e. beof a reasonable size and typeface.

3. Where aPayment Service Provider makes arepresentation in respect of the scopeof its regulation by
theAuthority in any publicly available material, thePayment Service Provider shall at all times ensure
that therepresentation is accurate and not falseor misleading.
4. A Payment Service Provider shall ensure that materials provided to customers or potential customers,
areclear, complete, accurate, understandableand notmisleading, regardlessof thedelivery channel.
5. Any advertisement or promotional material developed by thePayment Service Provider, regardless of
its delivery channel, shall include:

         a. The identity and contact information of the Payment Service Provider;
         b. A statement to theeffect that thePayment Service Provider is authorised by theAuthority;
         c. A summary of themain termsand conditions associated with thePayment Service ;
         d. The qualifying criteria for participating in the promotion, and the duration of the promotion;

            and
         e. The contact information of the Payment Service Provider’s dispute resolution
         mechanism
6. A Payment ServiceProvider shall provideasummary of details of atransaction prior to theConsumer
approving thetransaction. Thesummary of details shall at a minimuminclude:

                                                                                                      29
         a. Information that identifies the beneficiary of the transaction such as name and telephone
            number;

         b. Thetransaction amount;
         c. Thefees and charges as aresult of thetransaction;
         d.A cautionstatementindicatingtimelimitsrelevantforexecutionof thetransactionandthepoint

            of time from which the time limits count, including the instance of finality and irrevocability
            of the transaction;
         e. Where applicable, the averageinterbank exchangerate published
7. A Payment ServiceProvider shall issue, freeof charge, aconfirmation to aPayment Service User for
everytransactionundertakenbythePaymentServiceUser. Theconfirmationshall ataminimum, contain
the following:
         a. Name of beneficiary (if applicable);
         b. Transaction amount;
         c. Datetransaction was completed;
         d. The beneficiary’s account or wallet number (if applicable);
         e. The originating source of transaction (if applicable);
         f. The contact information of the Payment Service Provider’s dispute resolution mechanism.

                                                                                                                  Chairperson,
                                                                   International Financial Services Centres Authority

                                                                                                      30
