

===== PDF_PAGE 1 / 2: 037_ICSI CSJ__CSJ July 2024 - IFSC overview.pdf =====
Overview of International Financial Services 
Centre and Opportunities for Company Secretaries
Government of India implemented a major financial sector reform by establishing and 
operationalizing  India’s maiden International Financial Services Centre (IFSC)  in Gujarat 
International Financial Tech City (GIFT City), Gujarat. The vision of the Government is to develop 
GIFT IFSC as a leading internationally recognized financial centre with trusted business 
regulations, competitive tax structure, and ease of doing business. The IFSC has been designated 
as a special international financial jurisdiction, which is treated as a non-resident zone under 
Foreign Exchange Management (FEM) Regulations, thereby facilitating transactions in any freely 
convertible foreign currency.
CS (Dr.) Dipesh Shah, ACS
Executive Director (Development), IFSCA
Gandhinagar, Gujarat
dipesh.shah@ifsca.gov.in
INTRODUCTION
G
overnment of India implemented a major 
financial sector reform by establishing and 
operationalizing India’s maiden International 
Financial Services Centre (IFSC) in Gujarat 
International Financial Tech City (GIFT City), 
Gujarat. The vision of the Government is to develop GIFT 
IFSC as a leading internationally recognized financial centre 
with trusted business regulations, competitive tax structure, 
and ease of doing business. The IFSC has been designated as 
a special international financial jurisdiction, which is treated 
as a non-resident zone under Foreign Exchange Management 
(FEM) Regulations, thereby facilitating transactions in any 
freely convertible foreign currency.
The Hon’ble Prime Minister of India during his visit to GIFT 
IFSC in July 2022 articulated his vision for GIFT City and 
stated that “the vision of India’s future is associated with GIFT 
City, which is an important gateway to connect India with 
global opportunities”. He further stated that “if one integrates 
with GIFT City, one will integrate with the whole world”.
To further promote ease of doing business and provide 
for dedicated regulatory intervention, the Government 
of India through an Act of Parliament in 2019 set up the 
International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) 
as a unified regulator for the development and regulation of 
financial markets in the IFSCs in India. From 1st October 
2020, IFSCA assumed powers of four domestic sectoral 
regulators namely the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) & Pension 
Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA), in 
so far as development and regulation of financial products, 
financial institutions, and financial services within the 
IFSCs is concerned.
GIFT IFSC in the last 3 years has witnessed substantial 
growth across the entire spectrum of financial services 
activities including Banking, Capital Markets, Insurance, 
Funds Industry, Aircraft Leasing, FinTech, etc. With an 
internationally aligned regulatory regime, competitive tax 
structure, and beneficial cost of operations, GIFT IFSC is 
fast emerging as a prominent international jurisdiction for 
availing a wide array of international financial services.
As of May 2024, more than 628 + entities across Banks, 
Capital Markets, Insurance, FinTech, Aircraft Leasing, 
Ship Leasing, Bullion Exchange, etc have been registered1 
with the IFSCA. The financial services market is gaining 
momentum with healthy and growing participation of global 
and domestic financial services institutions.
The key advantages of the International Financial Services 
Centre at GIFT City are as follows:
a)	
IFSC is a separate financial jurisdiction within India, 
which is treated as a non-resident zone under Foreign 
Exchange Regulations.
b)	
The IFSC enables global investors and financial services 
firms to access India’s large hinterland economy in a 
more efficient manner.
c)	
IFSCA has been set up as an agile, unified, and dedicated 
authority for the development and regulation of financial 
markets in GIFT IFSC.
d)	
IFSC offers globally aligned regulatory architecture 
across Banking, Capital Markets, Insurance, FinTech, 
Aircraft Leasing, etc.
e)	
Access to a large talent pool of skilled human resources 
both in the financial and IT sectors.
f)	
The centre offers a globally competitive tax regime and 
special incentives.
g)	
Beneficial cost of operation viz-a-viz other overseas 
financial centres.
h)	
The Geo-strategic location of GIFT IFSC allows IFSC 
to serve different time zones from Japan to the United 
States of America.
1. Including all entities registered, licensed, authorized and notified by IFSCA.
ARTICLE
JULY 2024   |   61
 
  CHARTERED SECRETARY


===== PDF_PAGE 2 / 2: 037_ICSI CSJ__CSJ July 2024 - IFSC overview.pdf =====
ACHIEVEMENTS SO FAR
a)	
Comprehensive 
Regulations 
(29 
Regulations,16+ 
Frameworks) aligned to international best practices, 
have been brought out which, inter alia, include Banking 
Regulations, Capital Market Regulations, Insurance 
Regulations, AML (anti-money laundering) / CFT 
(combating of financing of terrorism) guidelines, etc.
b)	
A well-developed financial sector ecosystem comprising 
world-class market infrastructure institutions, fund 
administration, custodial services, trusteeship services, 
consultancy services, legal advisory services, wealth 
advisory services, audit services, international trade 
finance services platform, etc.,
c)	
Impressive growth in the banking sector, including 
entry of many globally reputed foreign banks such as JP 
Morgan, HSBC, Standard Chartered, MUFG, Deutsche, 
BNP Paribas, Citi Bank, Barclays, Mizuho Bank, ANZ, 
etc. Additionally, SBI has set up a regional office for its 
South Asia operations. The total banking asset size in 
IFSC has grown to USD 61 Bn+ and cumulative bank 
transactions have crossed USD 853.00 Bn+ as of May 
2024.
d)	
Gaining 
recognition 
as 
a 
preferred 
destination 
for India-centric funds. Till May 2024, 124 Fund 
Management Entities have been registered by IFSCA 
which have launched 137+ funds (Private Equity funds, 
Venture Capital Funds, and Hedge Funds) with capital 
commitment to the tune of USD 37 Bn+.
e)	
Has reached a point of inflection in the aircraft leasing 
business with the complete ecosystem in place. The 
ecosystem comprises 30+ Aircraft lessors that have 
leased 158+ aircraft/assets from GIFT IFSC (including 
Air India leasing six A-350 wide-bodied aircraft.
f)	
12 ship-lessors are registered which have leased four 
ships from GIFT IFSC after the Ship leasing framework 
was notified with suitable regulatory and taxation push. 
Reliance and Arcelor Mittal have also set up ship leasing 
firms in IFSC.
g)	
India International Bullion Exchange (IIBX) has become 
operational with a complete ecosystem in place. Boost 
received from channelizing UAE-India CEPA gold 
through IIBX. More than 11.3+ tonnes of bullion and 1000 
tonnes of silver have been imported through the IIBX.
h)	
3 Internationally recognized vault managers have 
established vaults with a capacity of 420 tons for Gold 
and 2200 tons for Silver.
i)	
Steps have been taken for the development of GIFT IFSC 
as a Sustainable Finance Hub. Cumulative ESG listing 
to the tune of USD 12 Bn+ has been listed on IFSC 
Exchanges.
j)	
Several measures have been taken to develop GIFT 
IFSC as a Global FinTech Hub. IFSCA FinTech Entity 
(FE) Framework 2022 and FinTech Incentive Scheme 
have been notified. Under the FE Framework, 138+ 
applications have been received from 14 jurisdictions.
k)	
Subsidiary of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, i.e. IOC 
Global Capital Management IFSC Ltd. set up 1st Global 
/ Regional Corporate Treasury Centre in IFSC.
l)	
OVL Overseas IFSC Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of 
ONGC Videsh Ltd. has set up their Global Corporate 
Treasury Centre in GIFT IFSC for undertaking treasury 
management of overseas assets.
m)	 To develop the extended ecosystem in GIFT IFSC, two 
foreign universities namely Deakin University and 
University of Wollongong have been granted approval to 
set up International Branch Campuses in GIFT IFSC.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR COMPANY 
SECRETARIES
IFSC provides a great opportunity for CS in practice and 
employment. Being a new emerging centre, CSs can develop 
a new line of practice and work in new and emerging areas of:
	
International Finance
	
International Taxation
	
International Compliances
	
International regulatory landscape 
	
Arbitration
	
Direct listing
	
Alternate Investment Funds
	
Insurance
	
Banking
	
Bullion
	
Fintech
	
International Branch Campuses
	
Aircraft and Ship leasing 
	
Finance Companies 
	
Wealth Management
Also, the IFSC Authority has come out with an Ancillary 
Framework, which enables professional service providers 
to set up their practice in the IFSC zone. Under this 
framework, several consultancy firms have been authorized 
providing them the opportunity to serve IFSC entities/ 
Overseas entities.
CONCLUSION
Company Secretary professionals should understand IFSC 
opportunities in detail and take advantage of these emerging 
areas of practice and employment. 
CS
As of May 2024, more than 628 + entities across 
Banks, Capital Markets, Insurance, FinTech, 
Aircraft 
Leasing, 
Ship 
Leasing, 
Bullion 
Exchange, etc have been registered1  with 
the IFSCA. The financial services market is 
gaining momentum with healthy and growing 
participation of global and domestic financial 
services institutions.
Overview of International Financial Services Centre and Opportunities for Company Secretaries
ARTICLE
62   |   JULY 2024
 
  CHARTERED SECRETARY
