

===== PDF_PAGE 1 / 3: 038_ICSI CSJ__CSJ July 2024 - Payment Services Regulations.pdf =====
IFSCA (Payment Services) Regulations, 2024- 
An Overview
IFSCA has attempted to benchmark the regulatory regime in line with that in the international 
regulations governing payment services in jurisdictions like those in Singapore, United Kingdom 
and European Union. The regulations although is principle-based, has tried to cover all aspects 
relating to the efficient functioning of the payment services operations, safeguarding of the 
customers and applicable funds, governance of the PSP etc.
Sanjay Meghraj Khobragade 
Assistant Manager, IFSCA
Gandhinagar, Gujarat
sanjay.mk@ifsca.gov.in
INTRODUCTION
W
ith a view to develop GIFT - IFSC as 
a preferred jurisdiction for payment 
services ecosystem, IFSCA notified 
the 
IFSCA 
(Payment 
Services) 
Regulations in January, 2024. These 
regulations have been benchmarked to international 
regulations governing payment services in jurisdictions 
like those in Singapore, United Kingdom and European 
Union. The regulations lay down the framework for 
entities providing the following payment services to seek 
authorisation from IFSCA:
a) 	 Account issuance service (including e-money account 
issuance service)
b) 	 E-money issuance service
c) 	 Escrow service
d) 	 Cross border money transfer service
e) 	 Merchant acquisition
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
	
The Payment Service Provider (PSP) shall be a 
company with its registered office in IFSC. A single 
authorisation shall enable the PSP to provide any of 
the 5 enabled services. 
	
Basis the volume of transactions enabled, the PSP 
may be designated by the IFSCA as Regular Payment 
Service Provider (RPSP) or Significant Payment 
Service Provider (SPSP). 
	
The net-worth criteria and threshold criteria is 
different for both RPSP and SPSP. 
	
Authorisation shall be issued to the PSP in the 
form of grant of Certificate of Authorisation, 
which shall be valid unless revoked by the 
Authority or surrendered by the Payment Service 
Provider.
	
A Financial institution, set up as a company and 
authorised by the Authority under applicable 
regulatory framework, may also seek authorisation 
to act as a Payment Service Provider under these 
regulations.
DEFINITION(S) OF THE ENABLED 
PAYMENT SERVICES AND PERMISSIBLE 
ACTIVITIES THEREIN
i.	
Account issuance service (including e-money 
account issuance service): Issuance of a payment 
account to a payment service user, irrespective of 
whether such user is situated in IFSC or outside IFSC. 
The PSPs providing account issuance services shall 
also provide services to enable payments to be made 
into the payment account as well as to allow users to 
make withdrawals from payment accounts. A PSP 
is also allowed to issue both, physical or electronic 
form. Any e-wallet issued by a PSP cannot hold Indian 
Rupee (INR) in any form. It can only hold currencies 
such as United States Dollar (USD), Euro (EUR), 
Great Britain Pound (GBP) and any other currencies 
specified by the IFSCA. E-wallets issued by a PSP are 
also prohibited from storing any cryptocurrencies or 
stablecoins.
ii.	
E-money issuance service: For the purpose of 
these regulations, e-money refers to a monetary 
value denominated in a specified foreign currency, 
representing a claim that has been already paid in 
advance and is acceptable by a person other than 
the issuer. PSPs providing e-money issuance service 
are not permitted to use the funds for financing 
services or permit withdrawal of cash equivalent 
to e-money.
iii.	 Escrow services: Arrangements wherein funds are 
held by a PSP in an escrow account with an IFSC 
ARTICLE
84   |   JULY 2024
 
  CHARTERED SECRETARY


===== PDF_PAGE 2 / 3: 038_ICSI CSJ__CSJ July 2024 - Payment Services Regulations.pdf =====
Banking Unit (“IBU”) or an IFSC Banking Company 
(“IBC”) on behalf of two parties that are in the process 
of completing a transaction. Any PSP providing escrow 
services to other PSPs may hold escrow accounts with 
multiple banks for providing such services to the 
PSPs.
iv.	 Cross border money transfer service: Refers to 
the transmission of money from a person in IFSC to 
anyone outside IFSC and receiving money from any 
person outside IFSC for transferring such money to a 
person situated in or outside IFSC. Additionally, this 
service also includes transfer of money from a person 
in the IFSC to a person in any other country including 
India.
v.	
Merchant acquisition services: Similar to the 
payment aggregation services to merchants in India. 
Allows the merchant to facilitate different modes of 
payments from their customers. However, payment 
gateway services have been excluded from the scope 
of these services. 
PROCESS FOR AUTHORISATION
i.	
In the first stage, the parent company/person may 
make an application to the Authority on behalf of 
the proposed PSP company. The Authority while 
assessing the application shall look into such 
relevant criteria(s) as it may deem fit like Fit and 
Proper of the applicant, past experience of the 
applicant or it’s relevant persons in the payment’s 
domain, financial soundness etc. before the grant of 
authorisation. 
ii.	
IFSCA after being satisfied that the applicant has 
fulfilled the necessary conditions (as mentioned in 
the Regulations) for authorisation may issue an “in-
principle approval” to the applicant. IFSCA while 
issuing the “in-principle approval” may impose 
some additional requirements/conditions that shall 
be fulfilled by the applicant before the grant of final 
authorisation. 
iii.	 One of the conditions in the in-principle approval 
letter shall be that the applicant needs to form 
a company incorporated in IFSC and put in 
the necessary capital as a part of the net-worth 
requirements. If the parent company is a person 
resident in India, it is advised to consider the provisions 
of FEMA including those relating to opening of 
foreign subsidiaries, transmission of capital from 
the resident company to the non-resident subsidiary 
etc. 
iv.	 The PSP shall submit the application stating its 
fulfilment of the necessary conditions as mentioned 
in the “in-principle approval” letter, post-which 
the Authority may grant authorisation to PSP to 
carry-out the payment services. Issuance of “in-
principle approval” by the Authority shall not 
automatically entitle the Applicant to be granted an 
authorisation.
NET-WORTH REQUIREMENTS
Every PSP needs to satisfy the net-worth requirements 
on ongoing basis. Net-worth requirement for RPSP 
is USD 100,000 and it is on higher side for the SPSP at 
USD 250,000. The RPSP and SPSP needs to achieve an 
increased net-worth of USD 200,000 and USD 500,000 
respectively, within three years of designation as RPSP or 
SPSP.
GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The regulations proposes the minimum aspects relating 
to the Governance arrangements that shall be placed 
by the PSP in relation to its operations of conducting 
the payment services. The PSP(s) are encouraged to 
put in place some additional safeguards in addition 
to the minimum requirements as mentioned in the 
regulations. 
The 
regulations 
also 
provide 
for 
the 
aspects 
that the PSP shall look into while entering into 
third-party 
service 
relationships 
and 
for 
the 
purpose of risk management arising out of such 
relationships. 
Duties of the PSP in relation to the payment services users 
or IFSCA and in relation to the overall operations have 
been obligated under these regulations. These includes 
duty to protect Applicable Funds, duty of co-operation 
with the Authority, duty towards Payment Service Users, 
duty to secure the information technology systems and 
other infrastructure, Redressal of grievances and dispute 
resolution.
SAFEGUARDING ARRANGEMENTS
For the purpose of carrying out the payment services 
operations, the PSP needs to appoint a Nodal Bank. 
The PSP shall maintain an escrow account (different 
escrow accounts for different services) with the 
Nodal bank for provision of services to the payment 
service users. 
The regulations also empower the Authority to require 
a PSP to maintain security deposit of a specified amount 
either at the time of authorisation or at any time thereafter. 
The regulations proposes the minimum aspects 
relating to the Governance arrangements that 
shall be placed by the PSP in relation to its 
operations of conducting the payment services. 
The PSP(s) are encouraged to put in place 
some additional safeguards in addition to the 
minimum requirements as mentioned in the 
regulations.
IFSCA (Payment Services) Regulations, 2024- An Overview
ARTICLE
JULY 2024   |   85
 
  CHARTERED SECRETARY


===== PDF_PAGE 3 / 3: 038_ICSI CSJ__CSJ July 2024 - Payment Services Regulations.pdf =====
Where a PSP surrenders the authorisation granted to it or 
the authorisation granted to it has been revoked by the 
Authority, the Authority may apply the security deposit, 
to the extent required, to pay any sums outstanding and 
claimed by payment service users who are customers of 
the concerned PSP.
A PSP authorised under the IFSCA (Payment Services) 
Regulations would be a regulated entity and hence need to 
comply with the requirements of the IFSCA (Anti Money 
Laundering, Counter-Terrorist Financing and Know Your 
Customer) Guidelines, 2022.
CONCLUSION
IFSCA has attempted to benchmark the regulatory 
regime in line with that in the international regulations 
governing payment services in jurisdictions like those 
in Singapore, United Kingdom and European Union. 
The regulations although is principle-based, has tried 
to cover all aspects relating to the efficient functioning 
of the payment services operations, safeguarding of 
the customers and applicable funds, governance of the 
PSP etc. 
The regulations would also permit Indian fintech entities 
looking to offer their products globally to develop IFSC 
as their base from which to expand their offerings to 
jurisdictions across the world. The regulations would 
also support the process of “reverse-flipping” as many 
of the Indian fintechs having holding companies 
in foreign jurisdictions are engaged in providing 
on or more of the payment services enabled by the 
regulations.
In conclusion, the IFSC Payment Regulations establish 
a new benchmark for regulatory governance, requiring 
robust risk management frameworks tailored to the 
digital realm.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE 
PAYMENT DOMAIN
1.	
In exercise of its power under the Payments and 
Settlement Systems Act, 2007 (“PSS Act”), IFSCA has 
recently released Consultation paper on the IFSCA 
(Payment and Settlement Systems) Regulations, 2024 
for regulating and authorising the payment systems in 
IFSC.
2.	
IFSCA is in the process of setting up a real-time 
foreign currency settlement system (FCSS), wherein 
the financial institutions in IFSC shall be able to settle 
their transactions denominated in foreign currency. 
Once fully operational, the FCSS system will save 
IFSC Banking Units (IBUs) both the time and cost 
of using the correspondent banking channel to settle 
transactions among themselves. For this purpose, 
the Clearing Corporation of India (CCIL) has set up a 
subsidiary in IFSC to act as the system operator for the 
FCSS. They are in discussions with Indian Financial 
Technology and Allied Services (IFTAS) to provide 
the software solution for the FCSS. A settlement bank 
having direct membership of the RTGS (Real-Time 
Gross Settlement) system in the US is also being 
identified. 
Note: The above essay is based on the author’s understanding of the 
IFSCA (Payment Services) Regulations, 2024 and knowledge regarding 
the current happenings in the payment’s space. The views expressed by 
the author is personal and do not represent the views of the IFSCA.

CS
IFSCA (Payment Services) Regulations, 2024- An Overview
ARTICLE
86   |   JULY 2024
 
  CHARTERED SECRETARY
